**Translated Lyrics:**

[Intro]  
I say yes, yes, yes, you are the most beautiful woman in the world  
And no, it’s okay if you order that too  
You should have it if you like this house  
I’m scared to say it, I’m nervous  
'Cause my chick is so bad, so bad, so bad  
My chick is so bad, so bad, so bad  
My chick is so bad  

[Part 1]  
Hey, no matter what time it is, I’m always late  
The guy on the couch, he just sleeps all day  
Always yawning, always missing  
Hey, guys, sorry, it was time to mention  
I visited this girl last month  
We went out to eat, had a date  
Anyway, she’s now my girlfriend  
And every time I sleep over, I can’t close my eyes  
But not because of sex, I’m scared (of her)  
'Cause she forces me and says: “You’re coming with me”  
And then she talks about some clique  
And that I won’t get out, 'cause everyone’s informed  
She says: “Let’s be a couple”  
I’d love to run, but she locks me in  
And I’d be her Ken in the fairy tale part  
Please, please fall asleep first tonight  
Shit, everything revolves around you  
Angelina, Brad Pitt  
Guys, believe me, I’m scared  

[Hook]  
'Cause my chick is so bad, so bad, so bad  
My chick is so bad, so bad, so bad  
My chick is so bad, so bad, so bad  
My chick is so bad, so bad, so bad  
My chick is so bad  

[Part 2]  
She’s so bad, hey, she steals my gas (gas)  
Doesn’t want me to leave, robs my bank (bank)  
Always sets my alarm three hours ahead  
Hey, you have to believe me, this shit is real  
She has my phone and won’t give it back  
No, don’t call, 'cause it’s locked  
And she even auctioned off my Mac  
I guess that’s why you haven’t reached me  
And yeah, I missed my flight  
But I feel like I’m more than halfway in jail  
And recently, I was hanging out alone at her place  
Then the cops come through the door and say: “We’re looking for something”  
I say: “Super crazy, I’m locked in here  
I think her name is Janine and I don’t know anymore  
And everything that’s here doesn’t belong to me”  
But unfortunately, the guy from the agency doesn’t believe me  
Shit, thirty kilos of drugs  
Even though I don’t even smoke  
Guys, believe me, I’m scared  

[Hook]  
'Cause my chick is so bad, so bad, so bad  
My chick is so bad, so bad, so bad  
My chick is so bad, so bad, so bad  
My chick is so bad, so bad, so bad  
My chick is so bad  

[Phone Conversation: Cro & Psaiko.Dino]  
“Yeah?”  
“Um, are you still sleeping?”  
“Me or what now?”  
“Oh man, you can’t be serious. Dude, it’s really annoying that you’re always late.”  
“Just wait a minute. Hey, you won’t believe me, but last night, super crazy.”  
“No.”  
“You still know that one from... ah, no, you don’t know her, but anyway...”  
“No, no, always those stupid excuses, some girls, you always come up with some nonsense.”  
“But hey, just wait, she really exists. Hey, why would I make her up?”  
“Man, last time the dog ran away, then you missed the bus.”  
“Yeah, I know, that story was made up, but THIS one is really real, man!”  
“Every normal person can be on time.”  
“Yeah, but when they...”  
“What’s wrong with you?”  
“Hey, when they just change my alarm clock, man!”  
“Honestly...”  
“I can’t help it if they just switch my alarm from nine to ten or eleven.”  
“Ugh, man, please grow up already.”