
Over the past several months, I have received no less than 300 requests, both throughout various sites and social media , including private messages to cover Simple Plan. Many of those were by the same person.

[Four caps by The Horror Guru... followed by the man himself, who does an evil laugh. Luke cringes and then takes a deep breath.]

So just like the last time when hundreds of you requested the
same album with St. Anger, I'm gonna cave in and do something that will make everyone else laugh and take a year off my life: listen to a Simple Plan album.

["Addicted"]
I was a sophomore in high school when this album came out, March 19th 2000 - well, I myself wasn't huge into the punk scene, I still knew  quite a few people outside of my high school that were one. Said albums was a huge hit for them, No Pads No Helmets No Dignity. Just because I wasn't into the pop punk scene back then, doesn't mean it's bad, and doesn't mean I didn't notice its following. It was a big deal back in the early and mid 2000s. For the teenage rock fans in the early 2000s, it was either nu metal or punk rock. Kids dressed up in baggy pants and hoodies or long socks and sneakers. Many of those bands from back then continue to keep their supporters and still even produce quality stuff today like AFI and New Found Glory. But then Canada steps in and gives us Simple Plan, the answer on how to dumb down to generation already being poisoned by the beginning of reality TV and around the time MTV finally stop pretending they were about music. Oh they struck a chord alright? Simple Plan's No Pads No Helmets No Dignity sold  just as many copies as... oh yeah! If you've seen these episodes before you know what's coming! You know when I say an album by comparison just to mess with your heads just to prove my points! And it's gonna hurt too! Simple Plan's debut sold just as many copies as Rage Against the Machine's The Battle of Los Angeles. [losing horns, Luke says disgusted...] oh my gosh!

And what's worse is that The Battle of Los Angeles came out a couple years before Simple Plan's debut! The album that had a message in was politically charged and had musicians who push themselves to the brink with creativity and their instruments while still driving an adrenaline charged album... is only as successful as a bunch of whiny brats who are marketed to look good!

Teenage girls loved these guys! But ladies don't get too upset about that insinuation! There are guys that are just as guilty of buying into an artist or singer just because they think she's hot! Just like there are women who buy albums and t-shirts of bands but have only heard one song of theirs ever, there are guys who totally buy albums and watch music videos of female performers just because they think the ladies are attractive. But back to the regretted hand with Simple Plan. In all honesty, this is a band who should not have been as successful as they were at all. Their music quality and contributions to music already been weighted as mediocre. How do they become so popular and how do they stay that way first so long for so many people? Well, just like before, I'm gonna go track by track into No Pads No Helmets No Talent, and see why this album is worth regretting, and at the same time, regret why I even made this a series in the first place .Track One: I'd Do AnythingThis is the main song I remember from my early high school years, that people were singing in the halls - and by people I mean that one annoying girl trying to way too hard to stand out. That repeated guitar riff is pretty defining of the band, and that's not a bad thing. But really, what is so special about this song? Vocally, the song is sung as nasally as Lois Griffin on Family Guy. The lyrics aren't creative and it just sounds boring; it's the type of song you would play behind a teenage movie trailer to go along with high school shenanigans. I am fully aware that Mark Hoppus of blink-182 is in this song as well... so what? That doesn't make it a good song! Just because a good musician from a band people enjoyed joins in on a song, doesn't make the track automatically better. that means any time a musician does karaoke with his friends that the song they are singing is instantly better written and more organized. Simple Plan just a month ago released a new song with Nelly. That doesn't mean every Nelly fan from the early 2000s has to instantly jump aboard the Simple Plan's shortbus! To be fair, the song isn't painful to listen to - just a bit unoriginal and it doesn't feel like there's anything to get behind, other than it's the quintessential Simple Plan song. No Pads No helmet no shame is known for this song especially that guitar riff but again that doesn't make the album good. If anything this is extremely mediocre and kind of telling of how awful it's going to be. the following songs get better though? Right?

[A segment where the lyrics go "Na na na", na na na"]

Nope. Nope, nope, nope, nope, it's all downhill from here! About over here not doing it...
[He tries opening the door. It is locked.]

Oh no!

[Luke still fails in opening, while Horror Guru laughs.]Track Two: The Worst Day Ever[6 a.m. the clock is ringing I need to spend an hour snoozing pick up...]

And here it is the main theme of no pads no helmets no middle school diplomas: the whining. The non-descriptive, vague, no real problems, generic, "kids growing up in a regular life" whining. hearing the lyrics "it's so long I can't go on" it's not only terrible and melodramatic but there was no real reason as to why it's the worst day ever. this is the type of music the rich brats down the street would get behind, because it connected to them in their teenage angst, when in reality, they had nothing to complain about. The guitar progression in the beginning actually sounds nice, it makes you feel like it could lead to something. But it just drops out to a whiny little manchild complaining about waking up in the morning. Give that child a Purple Heart.
The drum work isn't anything special, outside of a rhythm keeper. The bass might as well be non-existent. But somehow there were kids that got behind this just because it was the perfectly shade to describe how they felt. Uh... you know how the older generation always goes "back in my day..." when talking about their music? well if they're referencing this type of music then yeah I can totally see where they're coming from their generation was way better they went from Queen, to Nirvana... to Simple Plan. it's like a backward evolution chart!Track Three: You Don't Mean Anything"You Don't Mean Anything to Me" it's now about what 99% of the music scene thinks about Simple Plan. The guitar is starting to get a bit repetitive and generic as the album goes on. It isn't bad, but it's all starting to blend together as a food court monstrosity. I could probably stomach this song a bit more if it weren't for the writing. Sweet mercy, this is hilariously bad. If you're like me, you're picturing a rich low punk hit Joffrey stamping his feet when he didn't get the car he wanted on his 16th birthday, and he starts spouting stuff like this at the maids who are trying to clean his room for the eighth time that day. I'm trying my best not to repeat the chorus as it's already burrowed in my brain in all its angsty whining. But really, even as a teenager, I can't see the appeal to this! It doesn't even sound like something you would want to connect to on a personal level! But art is subjective. Just because it's not for me, doesn't mean it's not for anyone, and even though this song isn't for me and it's really whiny... and complaining... I'm really hoping this is the end of all this and it actually gets into some more mature, serious, less little kiddish, right?Track Four: I'm Just A KidUnless you are the little girl in Aliens or Clementine in The Walking Dead, you have no right to be singing that song!

Is this really what did it for pop punk fans in the early 2000s and still even today? This drone out monotone garage band song?
The guitars don't add anything, the drums are just present, and it's getting to the point where Pierre sounds like he's a little more bored with the song. Looking back at the previous three songs on No Pads, No Helmets, No Self-Respect, even if sang nasally in monotone and through all the childish whining, there still seem to be a bit of energy. I get that "I'm Just a Kid" was supposed to be a slower and more serious - if that's possible - song, but it really doesn't land on the mark. It barely registers as memorable outside of some cringe-worthy lyrics. I mean, the tagline alone, "I'm just a kid,and my life as a nightmare" is so laughably bad, I can't help imagine some super privileged kid screaming this on Christmas Day when you got a regular Xbox One instead of a PS4! In fact let me change the lyrics to something a little more appropriate to what they already resemble!
[Babies crying over the song]
And this is the second song on the album where one of life's biggest complaints is having to wake up in the morning. You're really not selling me on this whole "my life is a nightmare" pitch, kid.Track Five: When I'm With YouAlright, aside from some more lyrical cheese this song isn't nearly as annoying as the others. "When I'm with you" perfectly captures adolescent love and crushes. It just feels like more of the same, though. Consistently played chords with little deviation even after a five-second bridge you can tell that Pierre and company try to elevate their range and build up to a peak but it still sounds incredibly bland and unoriginal. Looking through the tracks we've covered so far you can understand that simple plan's direction is intended for a younger crowd - and that's fine. That doesn't make the music good though just because you can relate to a chorus when you were 15 talent wise this all sounds like it could be performed by an upcoming battle of the band contestants and the only consistent theme so far is whining about nothing.

Remember when I talked about Rage Against the Machine? All the politically charged and modern issues that stand up and bring up while trying to push themselves creatively? Well, that is just as popular is whining about being young! This is why we can't have nice things anymore on the rock scene.

I don't have a problem with a band conveying a simple message and trying to create music that people can relate to but come on you can put more effort into a song than this only two and a half minutes and the chorus is repeated four times you know who's good at keeping a short song while trying to get a message across? the Wiggles! And it was crazy about the Wiggles is nothing yet they're young audience to actually pay attention without whining about it! meanwhile, Simple Plan makes everyone somehow angry after they listen to their music both the teenagers who can't get everything they want... and me for having a listen to this.Track Six: Meet You ThereThis is the rest of my life, isn't it? Oh until I do, "Meet You There" falls into the same main category as "When I'm with you". It has weak writing, but it isn't the worst thing I've ever heard, and it's not nearly as annoying as the first four songs. It actually sounds like they spent some legitimate time on this song as opposed to others. The drums really carry this track, and they might be the unsung hero that most people don't pay attention to. If Simple Plan had more songs with just a little more depth like this throughout No Pads No Helmets No Shame, then I honestly don't think I can make a video like this. I swear the people in the recording booth must have been knocked out of their seat when they heard them play this, and finally thought in themselves "holy crap, if they keep this up I may still have a job!" I kid around, but if this album had more songs like this on the album, then just maybe people would take them a little more seriously.Track Seven: Addicted["I'm a dick, I'm addicted to you..."]

And this right here is why most people the world over don't respect Simple Plan at all! Is this really what kids got behind? Is this really what pop punk fans would still defend in 2015? An entire song filter on one of the worst lines in love song history? It's not even a play on words!It's a play on a syllable! This is something that a couple of middle school kids figure out in English class when they should be paying attention and then Sharpie it on their desk because they think they're hilarious uh you know the

last few tracks really got me I thought a page was turned in the first third of this album was just the stupid happy-go-lucky chunk and the rest could have substance nope in one stupid line they flushed it down the music toilet! This is Fred Durst lyric writing quality! I know I already said how cheesy the writing is on this album but to prove my point I'm going to eat a little bit of Cheez Whiz every time a cheesy whiney lyric is said!

["Heartbreaker...]


All right, to break this all down this long is pasted poorly and sounds off it sounds like the vocals had to be slowed down with every other word just to keep with the rhythm and it creates an off-putting beats it makes the song feel

much longer than the formula running time besides that there is nothing to write home about the guitar work is first month guitar class lessons and the drums went back into hiding. It would be completely forgettable if it worked for one juvenile stupid line that they must have thought was genius.
["I'm a dick, I'm addicted to you", Cheez Whiz. Luke sees his PS4 with Fallout 4 in front of it...]
I should be playing you right now but no everyone wants to see me listen to this garbage! [Horror Guru laughing] This is what being a musician paid all my life resorted me to! Everyone on the internet wants to see me suffer! SmylyTrack Eight: My Alienokay simple plan just totally jumped the shark with this.

um that's our territory
Sorry, I'm a little stressed out I really don't like this I'm not trying to step on your toes. shark jumping is your thing.

oh that's okay just make sure to tell everyone to subscribe to us. Shark Jumpers! Freeze frame.

It's a love song for a two-armed four-legged alien. We went from a play on a syllable, to a love song for an alien. What kind of drugs were they on when they wrote this? Wait a minute! Does that mean every stupid high school crush song on this album so far has all been about the same alien? What the heck is this?! There's no real high school girl, it's just a young ET in a wig with extra legs? I can't even really go into detail about the generic strum by numbers guitar, that drawn-out singing, it's all overshadowed by secret alien love. I have nothing to say whatever implication of seriousness Simple Plan had and the few fleeting moments of this whiny diatribe has all been flushed down the toilet to talk about making out with an alien. Ew!Track Nine: God Must Hate MeNo no no no no stop! I could knock you behind a title like that what is your logic of God hating you besides giving you a singing voice like that the song starts off with getting caught for taking the car without permission God must hate him for that it then goes on to forgetting about a test and not studying God must hate him for that he then sings I want to go home repeatedly like a little kid who is sick of running errands with his mom this this has to be a joke right I mean this can't be serious this was meant to be funny right I mean the rest of the album is really whiny.... except for that weird alien love song but this has to be a choke right there's no way this was for real recording but they wanted to put on their debut album how does this album even exist roughy find a way to make it sound like I was born just yesterday and everything you taught me doesn't mean a thing so I'm going my wayTrack Ten: I Won't Be There[Luke taking some cheez wiz... while writing with it on the desk: "SIMPLE PLAN SUCKS"]

I want to give credit words too because it sounds like the man is actually trying to branch out with the guitar work at the beginning ten tracks in mind you but that lasts roughly 20 seconds

Until it's back to the same old schlock it's another whiny song about leaving and not being man it's a real coming-of-age song where after a boy makes out with an alien he decides to try and make it on his own

yeah I said all that correctly I would call this a filler song but filler songs still have components of music and talent that you understand why it was there after slugs about not being good enough and not getting what you wants you hear a song about leaving the music behind the lyrics and No Pads No Helmets No Excuse for this existing are all starting to blend together and is one long drawn-out track of musical white noise I'd also like to say that I'm probably going to become lactose-intolerant. these cheesy Tunes and lyrics keep popping up but I'm pretty sure there's no real dairy in this. sometimes as house feels like the prison that I just can't be there's so many rules I gotta follow Chrissie can let go put aside the sing-songy beat and just flat-out ridiculous feel of all this and read the first four bars of this song these lyrics are the whole summary of this album. this song sucks. that there's no other way to say it I have a hard time believing there was a studio engineer and a professional recording booth who had to listen to all this and fake a smile while giving the thumbs-up as these brats recorded it sure go ahead bring the non on odds in here no no struck that we don't need you this time it's already clear it's already obvious that these guys were pushing their vocabulary with a rock opera so they can resort to it this time ah 11 tracks and this is what we have is the last track the linchpin is this the song that people really connect with it really stand by

know the pace of the song feels much more natural to Pierre's vehicles but the vocals are still as monotone and nasally as ever it feels like this was much more personal of a writing experience for them but when you break it down these lyrics are just as whiny as I'm just a kid as my life as a nightmare and for what I understand a lot of people grew up with this track as being something personal to them not living up to expectations I have to admit that is something many people especially youth in a demanding situation can relate to but that still doesn't make this song good and instead of ending with a highlight it ends with just more of the same this is all just one long drawn-out whiny adolescent live journal entry there are grown adults that still defend no pads no helmets no musical ability to this day I mean we all listen to stuff we regret in the past but how do you still defend a song like "God Must Hate Me"? I mean there were many other bands in that era and sub-genre with better quality than this how did this album stand out so much because teen boys thought they look cool when teen girls were in love with them when listening to this album in full it went from hilariously bad to flat-out miserable also from what everyone tells me this isn't their worst album by a long shot they get worse as they go on is that even possible? Can a black hole become blacker? Is this what people talk about when ironically liking a band? what should we be regretting here well we should be regretting supporting a band that is so completely one-dimensional and obviously

reaching for the specific target I mean come on this whole album feels like a bunch of boardroom executives sitting around the table in Canada I figure out how they can attract teenagers we all bought albums in the past we probably aren't proud of now but the good thing is we can acknowledge why they were bad if you still like Simple Plan and the album for nostalgic reasons and that's fine but that doesn't mean you can't see why people laugh at all this and I also do realize the irony of me whining and complaining about this album which is mainly whining and complaining well to that I say you listen to this full album and see how you feel and I am never reviewing another Simple Plan album ever ever forever ever.