
Bring out the pre-rolled
My lingo be casino
Talkin' is two dollar, my convo Can rob dinero
Veering off further left to the HOV lane
I'm nappy boy no T-Pain
& it's just one of these days
I'm bummy for hell of it
My demeanor keep the steelo present like early Bdays
Reminiscent of my innocence, we can't ask for replays
Movin' forward, hit the door, major key, unicorns don't wear uniform
Ya mans and them doin' positive
You support, follow them
Don't be lame, give em game
Needs & wants
Ain't the same
And needless the more to say, just please let me grow today
I'm just tryna watch this sunset reflect off the window pane
My cousins bumpin' Gucci Mane, North Cackalacky I still remember the lemonade sweet as can be i need 'nother taste
Hit the hookah by mistake, but next time though imma stay
Namaste, right here with you guiding my spirits higher to vibrate like
Vibrate like

[Hook: Fred E.T.]
You might also likeAnd we gone just relax tonight
Hit the sunroof, full moon
Look good, you do
You got it like that
Now do you?
Now do you?
And we gone just relax tonight
Hit the sunroof, full moon
Look good, you do
You got it like that
I salute you

[Verse 2: Fred E.T.]

Find me on happy days I need to celebrate
Before my focus break and i can't concentrate
Head spinnin' on different solutions to one problem in all kind of ways, I hope you proud of me that i make sense of what i gotta say
Internal sufferin's a mothafucka it's something of an abundance of burdens that hurt to shake
That's why i purposely give more than i take
Material, verbal, between you and messiah 'til you lie in that grave
Now watch that good karma follow, reciprocated, infatuated
I need a sun radiated french braided beige piece
Slay Zendaya straight to red lobster, play prince charming, Gina's Martin
McDonough martians part of my stompin' ground posse, AYE!
(McDONOUGH!!!)
Shouts to my dog with his spaceship (W'HAA!)
Im a plane on that playin' field
Breaker breaker 1-9 9-4
HUMANmvmt ain't playin' fair
Chris Mullins with the mullet i be long hair
Writin for my life, spit that Paul Pierce
Like "Aw Yeah"
Imma be here all year, You get dropped by the Paul bearers
Gotta overcome all fears, if u wanna have long career
Takin risks with zips, i ship, i sail on hot water
Loan sharks leave my parents bothered
Negus say college ain't for everybody
Kill conversation
Don't be feelin awkward
I promise i'll prosper
Cunning hustle stirred with struggles beauty
Hall of Fame? Or you playin' rookie?
High and lows, show what u could be
Glass ceiling like the sunroof, heard thats where the moolah be
Girls and jewelry
Insanity, ingenuity
Only way to see you gotta beat the odds & bring to life of what you should be
Aye!
[Hook: Fred E.T.]
[Hook: w/ Ymani Halle & J. gateZ]