
Well now let's go to the serious stuff, a lot of people sitting down for a long time, it's now time to get serious. So, mi gente, vamos a ser lo serio ahora y por un momentito nos paramos despues que terminemos, seguimos.

So I'm going to start in English but I'm pretty sure I'll finish in Spanish. Let me just start by saying may God bless each one of you here today. Before anything, I would like to apologize because I'm speaking here in a second language, remember, I'm Dominican, even though I get away with English pretty well, I remain Dominican, and I have a hard time sometimes expressing myself this way. So bear with me everybody, please bear with me, and I am gonna have to translate as well, so bear with me, be patient.

If I do forget something or someone to mention, please don't feel bad. It's been 32 years before we got this opportunity to get here, and if I get emotional or I don't say something or don't mention someone, or if I don't say it appropriately, please forgive me.

Well, first of all, welcome everybody. I would like to take the moment to actually, uhm, say hello to all my peers, all my colleagues, the Hall of Fame, Jane, Jeff, Brad, the whole staff. Thank you for having us. It's a great honor to be here. It's a great moment, not only for me, for my family, it's a great moment for the Dominican Republic and Latin America. I would like to also welcome my amigo, my amigo the new commissioner Rob Manfred.

We have a lot of work to do in the Dominican Republic to keep bringing people to the Hall of Fame. I would like to thank MLB Baseball, also I would also like to thank my colleagues over there,  1- 5, I got you, I got you 1 - 5, la sangre mi nino, Harold, Greg, guys, John, my colleagues, everybody, I have you here, you're hanging in my heart.

Well, Tony Clark is not here but he represents the players association, the one that we were a part of for a long time, for me 18 years. We have you here too *points to heart*. I would like to thank the members of the media that actually voted us in, I couldn't thank you enough.  In '99 I had a little stretch where I felt you guys didn't like it, didn't like me so well but  hey you've made it  up and you've shown me you care when it really matters.

I think I just made three new brothers, three guys who while competing against them, and looking at them and learning from them gave me  great joy, a lot to learn, a lot to take with me up to this moment. Craig, what a headache you were, on the bases and hitting as well, too bad I couldn't realize that I couldn't throw fast balls up and away on time, especially late on the count. You can turn on it.

John, what a competitor. If you put me and Randy together I would say as far as stats are compared, I think Randy and I make the same stuff that you carry yourself, that's how talented you were John, I appreciate you bro.

Randy Johnson, the Big Unit, my brother from another mother *laughs* how much I enjoyed getting to know you and having you coming over to this class with me, thank you bro, you are special. Hey, I just wanna ask a question. How does the weather feels when you stand up?

My class of 2015 is a unique class, today is a unique day, Today, I don't have enough words to actually thank you all enough. My peers back here, the veterans I don't know what's after me in the next diner we're going to have but I heard I'm going to be with the Punching Judy's I heard that already.

Uhm, I would like to also welcome all the government officials from the United States, from the Dominican Republic, we have a huge package of people from Dominican representing the government, representing the country. Also, the officials here, I know the Secretary of the Navy is here, he became my friend, he's also a fan from Boston, so welcome aboard.

Well, all of you thank you for being here, hey, the Dominican parade is here. As you all know we all have people to thank, we all have different reasons that made us special and made us be here. I don't think I could have been here without having all the things that I've had happen in my life in general and also as a player. I would like to thank my people from the Dominican and my family members and all my friends from all over the country who came over.
I would like to thank America for the opportunity that baseball have to offer to me. Uh, words have the power to build you or break you, and I chose two words to describe pretty much how I feel today in this special day with all of you. I have so many things that I would like to say, that I don't know if I will find the words in Spanish or English but my God I'm thankful, I'm thankful for everything.

The two words I chose today were God and thank you. Chose God because he's the reason we're all here, he's the one that allows us to be here. He's the one that pretty much builds the way for you to make it here, to make it  in anything you're going to make, to actually become who you are. I have here the reason why Pedro was so determined out there. I have here the glory of God with me and I can only look to my left a little bit and I have all the motivation I needed to be the way I was in baseball — my family.

My kids, boys, you don't know what you're taking on when you take baseball, it's really hard but my God it's rejoicing to be here. Ashley, Jerrito, Nayla, Isaiah and Pepo, I love you guys. You are actually my legacy, my generation next. It's a huge commitment as you can see, not only with baseball, not only with your peers, not only with the fans, you have a huge commitment with the legacy that I have built for you guys, so thank you God for them and I love you all.

My mom *laughs* the nucleus of our family, my dad whose not here today, but I have a second dad, Ramon. You're right here, you are my second dad. My brother Ramon, another veteran in the big leagues. I follow his footsteps and led me where I didn't expect to be today. So thank you, bro, for being my support, for cleaning the way where I was going to walk. So thank you, bro, I love you forever and respect you as well.

The rest of my family, my brother Jesus, let me say something to everybody now that I can. In 2002 I wasn't given a Cy Young supposedly because I missed a start. Well that Cy Young I didn't win because I gave an opportunity to a kid named Josh Hancock, and why do I bring it up?

Because out of the four brothers that we are: Ramon, Nelson, me and eventually Jesus, three of us made it to the big leagues. But Jesus is not in the record books, because the organization that he was playing for did not find a chance to give him one pitch in the big leagues, so that he could be in the records.

And that was the main reason why decided not to take that outing, to give it to Josh Hancock because I felt bad that my brother Jesus did not experience what it was like to pitch in that game, that day. So Jesus don't feel bad, we pitch enough for you, and we're here. So love you, baseball is yours too and what we get it's ours.

I could like to thank God also for my beautiful wife, my other mother, Luz Maria, my other partner in crime, Ana Lelia, my cousins, my nephews, Lilly, I don't have enough words to say how much I appreciate you. My in-laws, all the people that have some how influenced my life.

But Carolina, I must say, what you're doing, the way you’re dealing with me. I know, I’m not an easy out when it comes to making me keep quiet,  especially after I retired where I didn't know what I was going to do with so much time. Carolina, I love you. I appreciate what you have done for my family. The things you have gone through to get all my family here, close to a hundred people we have here, ladies and gentleman.

And Carolina, Kerry, Pam, Nancy Lane, they were responsible for us being here and making this moment so special. I love you all, nana gracias por ser otra madre para mi. People in baseball that I feel so fortunate to have had by my side. You know, it's funny but I have so many names I want to mention. And we waited 32 years to see one more Dominican, and you have to imagine there were a lot of people involved in this.

So I'm gonna just drop a couple names of names that I would like to mention. After I thank God for the beautiful family that's witnessing what we have today. Right away I have to thank Avila, Rafael Avila, the man with the biggest history as far as ball players coming out of the Dominican Republic.

Just if you didn't know, that's Rafael Avila over here, my first mentor and my papaito that signed more than 50 players that have made it to the big leagues. Rafael Avila, an icon of Latin America, and a symbol of baseball in the Dominican Republic. Eleodoro Arias, my first coach who was always there to teach me the baby steps that I needed to take to become better every day.

I have a gentleman here that I think is crazy. I have a gentleman here whose name is  Dan Duquette. He was crazy twice to trade for the same little player and both times he ended up looking great. And he wanted me for a third time but I was too old.
So, Dan thank you for having so much faith in me, trusting I was gonna make you look good. I thought you were good looking without me but I guess I shaped you more. I have here a name...oh, I'm gonna say two names that I can't go without mentioning.

Felipe Alou and with Felipe Alou I'm going to mention Tommy Harper. Harper, Felipe gave me the opportunity, I was trying to take advantage of it.  There was a time where I felt I was not performing to the level and you gave me the best advice I could ever take with me. T. Harp thank you for telling me that the organ kept on playing.  Because at that moment I felt like I was failing and you just told me that's only a little slump.

How did you get into the slump? You got into the slump pitching, well that's the same way you have to come out of it. And I kept my faith and I kept my head up, and I kept working and today I can say I thank you for that, and the organ, yes, kept on playing.

I would like to take the moment to thank all the franchises I played for.... LA Dodgers, Montreal Expos, Boston Red Sox, New York Mets, and the Philadelphia Phillies, and at the same time say to the fan bases that we appreciate you all.

Montreal, I hope you get a team pretty soon, Boston I don't have enough words to say I love you. Even though LA Dodgers never got me the chance to prove what I could do. I was given an opportunity there to showcase a little bit so someone else could pick me up, thank you.  Philadelphia where I finished my career, little did I know that I was going to finish my career, but the fan base was great, the experience in Philadelphia was great, so to all of you thank you. The Mets fan, well if you look at me and you see me going wild, well that's the Mets fans, that's how we are, so Queens I love you too.

A lot of people that influence your life in other ways, I have names that I have to mention as well. One of them my Dear from the Dominican Republic, and all time friend. And she has been able to put up with a lot of stuff for me, Evita Tribidad, I couldn’t go without mentioning your name. My agent Fernando Cuza, he’s out there.

I have to thank Guy Conti the man that taught me the circle change up, a change up that gave those batters a lot of trouble,and his wife Janet as well. I have to thank the Hurlers family who were the ones that introduced me to the United states. All from Great Falls, Montana. Thank you, mama conchita. I know you’re somewhere out here. Thank you so much.

I have to thank some people in Montreal. Sam Eltes, Mark Routtenberg, the fan base in Montreal, thank you for supporting me. Thank you for being there for me and it’s too bad you don’t have a team.

All the coaches and trainers I was able to spend time with. Chris Correnti is one name that I could never forget. This is the guy that went through war with me, and wherever you are Chris, I love you, I appreciate it and may God bless You.

I would like to thank God for all the teammates I have. Jason Varitek, (hey 1 - 5!) Kevin Millar, Manny Ramirez, David Ortiz, so many names that I could mention today, I would like to thank all of you. The the ones that  I played with and the ones I competed against because you guys helped me on the field, help me defeat those other teams and at the same time you guys built my courage, strength and desire to get out there and try to beat you. The competition, I want to acknowledge you. And I want to tell you that I respected you even though sometimes by the pitches you wouldn't tell that.  I would like to thank god for the opportunity of being here.

I would like you all of you to not look at me as numbers, as baseball, as achievements, I would like you to see me as a sign of hope for a third world country, for Latin America. Someone you can look up to and feel comfortable enough to say "I'm proud of you."

Gracias, mi gente. Today I don't want to run into numbers and games that I pitched. I just want to make sure that my people get a little message across from me. And see me as a hope for future generation. I have to switch to Spanish because I would like these people to really feel what I felt today....

Muchas gracias a todos, en nombre de la Republica Dominicana, de Dios, en nombre del baseball, yo quiero darle las gracias a todos por el apoyo, por siempre estar aqui conmigo, por siempre, amarme de la forma que me han amado y respetado y respetado a nuestros familiares
Yo me siento hoy mas que orgulloso y comprometido con todos ustedes.....me siento eh muy agradecido con Dios, por darme la oportunidad de representarlos, de representarlos con dignida, pero no quiero hacer esto a nombre mio, ni quiero que me vean a mi como la persona que consiguio los trofeos individuales, yo quiero que todo Dominicano, todo Latino que este aqui, que vea que nosotros estamos preparando un espacio para los que han de venir en una futura generacion. Nosotros los Dominicanos no hemos tenido este chance muy a menudo. Este es el chance para nosotros, dar gracias a Dios por lo que tenemos, por lo que seremos , por lo que consiguiremos esto es el momento. Yo quiero  servir todo ustedes simplemente como una muestra de esperanza, de fe, de determinacion. Alguien que lucho por ensenar los valores que se nos inculcaron en nuestras familias a temprana edad. Una persona que se siente digna de ser Dominicana, que se siente orgulloso de su pais y su gente. Gracias, muchas gracias

Quiero decirles a todos que Dios tiene maneras muy exclusivas de hacer las cosas.Yo no se si ustedes recordaran que en Enero 6 mi llamada llego y fue para decirme que yo habia entrado al salon de la fama en primera vuelta.

Quiero que me escuchen bien, porque Dios tiene maneras unicas de trabajar con nosotros, ese dia era el dia de los ninos, dia de reyes, yes el dia de los ninos, kings day.

Today, hoy es el dia de los Padres en la Republica Dominicana y quiero aprovechar este momento para que todos ustedes disfruten conmigo de este Dia de los Padres disfruten de este momento como un regalo mas que Dios le ofrece y que me usa a mi como  un puente para traerle a todo ustedes a todos los padres de Republica Dominicana y quiero dedicarselo al mio en especial tambien a todos los padres de Republica Dominicana que hoy celebran ese dia y los respetan. Quiero que hoy se sientan que esto es parte de ellos, se lo dedico.

Yo quiero que ustedes de aqui en adelante no vean al Pedro Martinez que consiguio los numeros, no quiero que ustedes vean al Pedro Martinez que entro al salon de la fama y tiene una placa. Yo quiero que ustedes se lleven en sus corazones  la esperanza que yo alcanze lo que yo pude lograr que ustedes lo vean en mi que ustedes cada uno se identifique cada vez que me vea a mi y que vea en mi una senal de esperanza, de fe, de determinacion, de esfuerzo, de trabajo digno, con dignidad. Quiero que todos los Dominicanos recordemos eso.  Este es un gran sitio para nosotros decir hoy que queremos una Republica Dominicana mas digna, que queremos una Republica Dominicana mas comprometida a la nueva generacion como decimos nosotros. Yo quiero dejarles este mensajito el legado que don Juan Marichal aqui detras, el legado que don Juan Marichal nos dejo a nosotros, yo no sabia que lo hiba al alcanzar pero yo lo alcance. Espero que don Juan Marichal y yo en este dia le estamos compartiendo a ustedes Ustedes tambien los puedan lograrlo otro dia. Vladimir Guerrero yo se que  estas por ahi, en dos anos te vemos aqui.

Yo quiero sin mas nada como quien dice despedirme de todos ustedes y quiero que siempre que vean esta placa o alguien se pase por Cooperstown vean la senal de esperanza que Dios nos dio, quiero que vean agradecimiento, quiero que vean todo el amor del mundo que Dios deposito en nosotros, de donde me trajo Dios para que yo llegara hasta aqui. Mama, mama es el dia de los padres quiero reconocerte, quiero reconocer a todas las madres que estan aqui porque ellas son el futuro de nosotros, son las que extienden la generacion de nosotros y el legado. Quiero darles las gracias a todos, quiero darle las gracias a mi pais. Quiero darle las gracias a Estado Unidos a la embajada americana que se fajo con nosotros para que todos estubieramos aqui, a nuestra consul alla en Republica Dominicana y tambien al embajador que tambien se envolvio para que nosotros pudieramos compartir este momento aqui tan bonito. Muchisimas gracias a todos. Yo tengo ahora como quien dice explicarle a esta gente lo que yo acabo de decir pero lo voy a resumir muy cortito.

I'm going to back to English just so I can zoom in some of the stuff I said, I feel proud to represent the Dominican Republic. I just dedicated this day to all the fathers in the Dominican, because today is Father's day in the Dominican Republic. And the day I was call to be inducted into the hall of fame it was January 6th which is King's day and God has funny ways to do things.

The day I was called to be inducted into the hall of fame it King's day, and the day I'm being inducted is father's day in the Dominican Republic, so to all fathers in the Dominican Republic feel like this is your gift today. I thank you all for your patience, I would like to do something that would probably break the protocol but I would like to give my people an opportunity that we don't get very often and we had to wait 32 years for us to do.

So, I would like to invite Mister Juan Marichal to come forward and finally give the Dominican Republic a gift that they waited 32 years to get, congratulations, thank you so much. Thank you for having us.  Que Dios bendiga todos. Esto es una oportunidad que la brinda la República Dominicana . Disfrutar todo mundo, God bless you all!3