Yeah! Logical, it's the Last Resort
Once again hahahha you think you can buy me
You think you can offer me things that will make me do things for you that I don't wanna do
Are you crazy fam
It's never that

[Verse 1: Black The Ripper]
It's the high from hustler, live in the flesh
Them other guys are tellin lies I provide you the best
I spend time doing music 'cause the roads are stressing
Rappers don't want me on their track they know I'm the best
My flow is possessed
Big up [?] my niggas getting dough and the ends
Deep floating in the benz
From pretty [?] yo I think she likes me showin' off to a friends
I hit it twice [?]
Fuck attachment
I'm tryna buy myself a couple mansions
One for me to live in, give the other to mandem
I'm trying to live lavish
Underground but still established
I'm well-known in all the ill manners
I'm nice with it, if you got bad bitches and weed, I might kick it
If not, I got 'bout time's ticking
I'm on my mission tryna find freedom and life prison, born to loose
So [?]
You might also like[Hook: Logic]
It's never that, think are we having a bar, it's never that
Trust me when I say charge, they will attack
My people in Afghanistan, and in Iraq, ugh it's never that
Nah it's never that think are we having a bar it's never that
Trust me when I say charge, they will attack
My people in Afghanistan, and in Iraq, ugh it's never that

[Interlude: Logic]
Logic..
Logical.. Logical and Last Resort (Last Resort..)

[Verse 2: Genesis Elijah]
Word to clip I slip but never sold my soul either
Nine ether of my don heart cold freezer, born leader caught me attempted with a full heater
Feat. twelve sports ain't you fires [?] four seats
Satan told Jesus if you worship me well then I'll give you all you see
Jesus told him fuck off I'm a be who I was born to be
You better watch how you talk to me or something like that
They told me I need to dummed down they sound so pussy
Their seats, full of cuts now
The only live but in the estates and still in it it's dumped up
And all the big name rappers get truly sucked now
Hip hop ain't dead but the life's getting sucked out
I held my tongue before, but I don't give a fuck now
Guns out, bust round, gunned down
Dumb cops, punched out, gunshot, and punks got, fucked out
[Hook: Logic]
It's never that, think that we having a bar, it's never that
Trust me when I say charge, they will attack
My people in Afghanistan, and in Iraq, ugh it's never that
Nah it's never that think that we having a bar it's never that
Trust me when I say charge, they will attack
My people in Afghanistan, and in Iraq, ugh it's never that

[Verse 3: Logic]
Yes!
Are you crazy fam
Listen
You thought I wouldn't come back with a remix (Never that!)
Think I got time for agents? (Never That!)
I don't believe in Adam and Eve now never that (Never that)
Cause I'm not misled by another man's chosen facts
Never knew never what never that
Clever clock step a little problems cause I'm trying to get to bust
Send to me whoever is in charge Bambaata, Splatt fire
Never label a Logic as a lier never that
I'm the type to coming to you direct
Not the type to set a trap nah never that
Never lack of motivation not sittin' chat with whack wickedy
I been doing this when BlackStreet made "No Diggity"
Since Biggie was signed to P. Diddy
Since Emcees said hippie to the hippie
If you give me the mic you're not get it back
No deal Mr. Banger never that
[Hook: Logic]
It's never that, think are we having a bar, it's never that
Trust me when I say charge, they will attack
My people in Afghanistan, and in Iraq, ugh it's never that
Nah it's never that think are we having a bar it's never that
Trust me when I say charge, they will attack
My people in Afghanistan, and in Iraq, ugh it's never that