Bobcrap on youtube, Eighty Nine I'll shoot you. (pew)
Channel going up, getting lots of subs. (Count em up)
Me and my team, only getting dubs. (Double u)
Your vids look like you pick em from the trash. (ey)
Watching em hurts more than a rash (yUhH)
I got way more times more, subs
Yo channels are lowkey dumb (retarded)
Counting up views... Algebra (basic math)
Yo vids are very bad bruh (Yuh)
My raps are better than Lil, Pump? (Esketit)
I got more power than trump (fire)
Talk about my Overwatch D. va
My Jarvan IV is the new meeta
OK *laughs *
If we ever were to do, okay, a fight
Like a IRL fight
I would have to take off all of my ice (on my wrists)
Yea you already know
Tryna go in my own vid to diss me (mistake)
Nice try, I am always sleeping (sleep)
When you hit me hard I will wait. (hold)
So now we will sit here and wait (YUh)
You might also likeAll my haters I go and ignore (shut up)
I hope their toe gets stuck in a door (OW)
If you even had a girl I would finesse. (trap)
All she has to do is look at my check

Jamarcus45:
Ah ah ah shit bruh
I gotta hop on this shit bruh
Bruh you gotta hold the blunt real quick bruh
I, I can't even be smoking bruh
Im on (Hey hey, show em)
Yuh I gotta go
Ey, ey , EYYY

Yea pussy, you won't do shit
Feeling like ski mask money elastic
Me and Alex yea we pull up with the stick
Know for a damn fact we gon let that shit HIT

Call me fat, that's a weak ass roast
Me and Alex out here pulling up in a ghost
Man I'm fucking around I'm just here for a toast
Feel like 2Pac and Biggie I go coast to coast

Real quick imma switch my flow up
Saw yo baby pics opposite of a glow up
Seventh grade pic yea you make me wanna throw up
You at rock bottom and you can't even go up
I'm ashamed when I see your bitchass in the mall
We're screaming sayin "It's an Asian beach ball"
Plus Sabrina every day she never answers your calls
This is the beginning of your death, JUST LIKE FALL

Ohhh my gosh guys this is real beef!
This is real beef! You can't fake this! (Yuhhhh)
You can't fake this! (eyYYyyYY)
Im on top! (Yuh)
Im the best! (We gon win this one we gon win this one)
Im the greatest!

Hurt you lots like in your speedrun
Yeah globyglob you getting beat son
I'm the star in your only good video (actually)
Getting someone else to edit is very low

Say your IQ is lots down thats a lie (One Hundred)
Watch my videos I'll show you why (Two Hundred!)
My plays are straight intelligent (smart)
I'm the greatest if you need a little hint4