**Translated Lyrics:**

[Intro]  
La-la-la-la, la-la-la (Lucry)  
La-la-la-la, la-la-la (Sounds good)  
Hey  

[Part 1]  
For you, it was over after my first word  
At the top, it’s lonely  
They pay for the Benz with their advance  
I pay for the Benz with my earnings  
We party hard, tearing up shows  
And we love the risk  
After 22 years, I’ve understood  
My father didn’t just want to step out for a smoke  
It’s slowly getting dark again  
I put my little sister to sleep  
I roam around on the street  
Now and then, someone breaks a nose  
Not made of sugar, but the nights are cold  
Love is calling, I have no reception  
Phone vibrating in my hand  
Can’t read it, I’m back on the drink  

[Pre-Hook]  
When the first rays of morning shoot through your window  
And tickle your nose, you have to sneeze half-asleep  
Our blocks are way too high, we can’t enjoy it  
Not even the sun can make it in here (La-la-la-la-la-la-la)  

[Hook]  
Hey yo, what’s up?  
We’re driving in convoys through my neighborhood  
I just type this into my iPhone, what I experience  
Shit, man, so now we’re famous  
Hey yo, what’s up? Hey yo, what’s up?  
Mom, look here, your son finally made it  
You became a millionaire overnight  
Shit, man, so now we’re famous (Hey)  
Hey yo, what’s up? (Hey) Hey yo, what’s up?  

[Part 2]  
I hate violence  
But sometimes you have to bring it to heel  
And when you see each other live  
They have to piss themselves through their pants onto their shoes  
I’m playing a show in an arena  
You’re playing in pubs, so please be quiet  
All tickets gone in ten minutes  
Bitches offer sex for tour tickets  
The rap scene is just a circus of monkeys  
Where little kids like to play with guns  
I stand where I stand because I am who I am  
And not because someone placed Apache here  
I know it myself, I was gone for a long time  
But even if I drop a children’s song (La-la-la, la-la-la-la)  
Better get lost from my release— (Apache, la-la-la-la)  

[Pre-Hook]  
When the first rays of morning shoot through your window (La-la-la-la, la-la-la-la)  
And tickle your nose, you have to sneeze half-asleep (La-la-la-la, la-la-la-la)  
Our blocks are way too high, we can’t enjoy it (La-la-la-la, la-la-la-la)  
Not even the sun can make it in here (La-la-la-la-la-la-la)  

[Hook]  
Hey yo, what’s up?  
We’re driving in convoys through my neighborhood  
I just type this into my iPhone, what I experience  
Shit, man, so now we’re famous  
Hey yo, what’s up? Hey yo, what’s up?  
Mom, look here, your son finally made it  
You became a millionaire overnight  
Shit, man, so now we’re famous  
Hey yo, what’s up? Hey yo, what’s up?  