
Yeah, get ready for the brand new formula
DNB MC euphoria (yeah!)
It's so [warped?] if you ain't Team Drums I don't really wanna talk to ya
Cool, slaughter ya
You'll get zipped up bagged and chalk him up
Don't mess with the bigger don't stress to the best they comin' up short
Done your talk, Ra!
Man like Ski
Talk the talk and keep talking (gee)
You know me from DNB
Walk the walk and keep walking
I'm a C. O. E
G. O. D
Lyrically I'm important
There's no MC in the UK scene can chat to me 'cause I taught 'em
(Shotta!)

[Verse 2: Harry Shotta]

I got it locked like Fort Knox
Long time and I've been serious on this DNB flow
But now its a whole new level of thinking
Time to let the world know
This thing is a brand new genre
Done that Fire in the Booth cypher
Came out the BBC all hyper
Charlie Sloth the sick man's a mobster
Blood we're a problem any DJ not backin' it insecure I can't rate that
Don't make sense I sense a few sideman getting all sensitive,
Can't take that
Consequence is my statement
I state that this DNB vocal arrangement
Is the future that unification
Of sick soldiers with zero patience

[Hook: Skibadee]

Bang! Mash!
When I wanna bang bang when I wanna masha!
Grima, Skiba, Shotta, Dreps, Eks, Azza!
This is the manical wonderful sound of them man and them lyrical dappa
Do what you want do what you like-ah, Dominator!

Bang bang
When I wanna bang bang
When I wanna bang bang
When I wanna masha
Grima, Skiba, Shotta, Dreps, Eks, Azza!
This is the manical wonderful sound of them man and them lyrical dappa
They ready for D N B art form? Perfect.


[Verse 3: Eksman]

Yo for too many years DNB MCs have been way too quiet in the studio
We've only seen tunes that are regular up until now now
[?] wanna shout them wooow!
Mad ting! Dem man dey be letting off shows
Blaow blaow I'ma spray like an AK over D dark and gritty like hell
Breddas underestimating the greatness
Stereotype in the hype of a DNB MC like we ain't verbally shelling
Gimme the mic I'm beheading
Call up a medic, prophetic,
Man are ratin' me dead it, I said dead it!
I'm a king like Eric I don't spit generic jump up
Jump up we come to rep it
[Verse 4: Dreps]

The scene it grows inside of me when I'm inside the scene
I was 15 at my first rave now it's 2016
I be strongly representing and a representer that is me
Jeez ah, man you know to mention me when mentioning DNB
Team Drums linked Charlie Sloth
I done the Fire in the Booth with the boss
WE, hit 180k in a week on a mad ting that went off
You can't say that DNB's lost
Calm down don don tell a man stop
I don't take the piss it's cream of the crop
With this don't forget this team is a [?]

[Hook]

[Verse 5: Grima]

Yeah, I rep for that new age
The whole game is changing
Some man they just do raves
And still think they can break in
But they ain't got a clue mate
Nah, dem man are agein'
They don't wanna lose faith because verbally they get weighed in
Now pack your suitcase
If you ain't embracin'
Cause real men are crusade
Nah we ain't waitin'
Flow blow up like Ukraine
News scenes in the makin'
You diss me its doomsday I'm puttin' the pen to a pagan.
[Verse 6: Azza]

Skankin Armani aroma
Since the age of 16 dem fed things stop pulling me over
Came in the game with a brand new flow when I told dem man move over
Otherwise you will get spun around quick time looking all western revolver
Tell a man it's game over
DNB takeover
Cull my flows all venom in the night like I'm all for the beat no cobra
Don't really care about none of that gas talk
Us man [?] move solar
Me and Grima ball-hard in the game like Vialli and Zola
(Yeah yeah)

[Hook]