I say, you sense that, Loso? The Devil beside ya
It's a cold feelin’
And that lil' chill you just got is the sins in your soul spillin'
See I don’t care about imaginary gun bars, they give me a dope feelin'
Plus, if you familiar with religion, you know Christians did the most killin'
You can't help me or talk to me, you just gon' be shook how I reply
Stick ya hand out and you'll lose it, as well as ya life: I'm Denzel in The Book Of Eli
Scotty was your Training Day, He Got Game, but look, bitch, it's my fuckin’ turf
Get sent to Heaven on your Savior’s bus, and really see what Jesus' shuttle’s worth (Shuttlesworth)
I'm highly pissed, miss me with all that godly shit
For the fans with the pay-per-view, they chose to buy this shit
Y'all watchin' me put a 30 on cam’: this that Tekashi hit
We in Florida, I beat yo' ass in yo' state
The fist hurt his face, then I use the legs
But we in Orlando, so if this knee land (Disneyland), we in the perfect place
Nah, I got the urge to pray
I let off a round with a .38
Universal Studios globe, the'll revolve(r) 'round you
Let's talk, I battled DNA, Nitty, Chess, I face real tiers
Even Ryda, Mike P, Prep, some fire mid tiers
So I'm not worried about facin' you and your savior
I don't feel fear
Plus, I already stood in front of JC once...and I'm still here!
Aye, without me, you wouldn't be here tonight, bitch
I brung Shine to that league that birthed and gave you life, bitch
But when I dipped, you got hype quick and gave all praise to Christ, shit
Nigga I'ma ya god, I left you the Pen to write wit'
Who's child is this? Oh, John John's?
Well, I'mma do you foul, lil' bitch
Y'all wanna see me debate a Bull (debatable)?
Well, I'd rather draw on some wilder shit
[?] bitch, ain't no action in ya type
You was watchin' Passion Of The Christ
I was in fights, havin' to put passion in a right
You was suckin' John dick and let that nigga start actin' gettin' hype
'Cause these Hollows body shit: won't be no classic here tonight!
Aye look up, better hope that man controllin' your faith
They wanna know if I'm gonna break the Al Capone curse
I was cursed before the shirt went over my shoulders today
Evil as fuck, mid-rappin' we can go to the fade
You ain't peep the latest sponsor?
Nigga, Smack condone bringin' smoke to the stage
Nigga, I'll cock the shit, won't even pop the shit
He gets hit wit' the heat, rock his shit
Pistol-whippin' his teeth, won't stop the shit 'til the mission complete
Just a ratchet, goin' back and forth with Loso: Emily B
Aye, the trap like Christianity for real, think harder
You come across people gettin' stoned, and that PCP got fiends walkin' on water
We got good [?], hella white like your religion, see it's very true
Ain't too much difference, hell we even got Mary too
But this situation like baseball, oh that ain't register to no one?
Well I was locked up so off the bat I miss Strike but now that I'm home: run
This the major league and you can't take this Chef place
I'm not pitchin' you B.S., but all it take is 3 Of Them Thangs and you won't make it to your next plate
This nigga got a lot of faith, it's just somethin' I can tell 'bout him
Askin' if he knew where he was goin' when he died, Smack
He said, "Heaven"
Baow! yeah cause I shot the Hell out him
Ya niggas, I 12-round 'em
Then the lead is sparkin'
A switchblade, now y'all can go from Four to the Headless Horsemen
Now stick wit' me, he might use a 3 Of Them Thangs bar and talk about the Holy Trinity
But I don't got a father, son or a holy spirit so it don't mean shit to me
You ain't slick
Who said that Chef won't kill him?
See he fool y'all convincin' like he's righteous like that's gon' get it
But you fake preach, get what you want, then leave, that's why the Chef don't feel him
Once he get the check, this Christian jet, I see the Creflo winnin'
You might also like[Round 1: Loso]
They said this is long overdue, you know it was only a matter of time till you had to face me
Prolly cause this is like protocol
You know battle rappers always come to me after having roughs encounter with JC
I said, what up, Trez?
They shoulda told you I'm not one you wanna see in the ring
No weapon formed against me shall prosper, while He is the King
I dare you, please intervene, hit me with the D.E. or the beam
I got the Father, Son and Holy Gh…you right that's 3 Of Them Thangs
Take a hint fool, "notice" I'm at your door like the rent due
If you wanna bring War to (water) me keep it bottled up, that's a Flint rule
You should've been knew, every popular name I dismantle them too nice
See my domination is a constellation, I line these stars up and show you what an animal look like
Oh you still pissed off my brother? Why? Cause I ain't earn your respect?
I went to your house and started cooking, I see why you took it "Personal Chef"
Well let's learn from the best
I'm talkin' A. Ward, Street Hymns, Saga, you'll never be ranked before us
Why am I giving him a list?
Well his name's Chef, this exactly where I'm suppose to place my order
They tell me "Oh no, Loso, we think it's a phase."
I'm enlightening the crowd as they go crazy, they think it's a "rave"
I went to Atlanta, took over the Bullpen, they thinking I'm "Brave"
Who's really putting on for GA? Me! Think it's a game
But you know I stopped all that once I murdered RBE's legend killer
No wonder why they book this bro
The Lord enhanced me, Gordon Ramsey
They figured I'd master Chef once they saw me cooking Show
I tell em, Brother Trez Brother Trez, you saw me win every battle and knew you never pass me with rappin'
You showed your heart, they ain't even gotta ask me what happened
Rosa Parks: he wanted me to take a back seat for blackin'
The fact is, my killin' in a gruesome way, made him step it up
Now everybody thinking that this guy's special
In other words, all that gore made (gourmet) Chef start cooking on a high level
But we amazed, how you quick with rhymes and the boy spit
But lately, it's TSA: we skip your lines and get bored quick
Boy, I'mma sure pick, you wanna know why the kid ain't impress? Prolly cause you ain't never cooked in a literal sense
I'm talking biblical text, five loaves, two fish, my God's the original Chef
And you? Typical? Yes
Every battle you let the 'matic pop
And y'all be letting that trash fly like static shock
No wonder you took a drastic drop, don't even have half the stock of your captain Roc
All of New York knew what time it was once I got the call
I made everybody from the Apple Watch
Wait wait wait, that's a popular reference for the rebuttal king
You know he gonna try to scheme the store
Like, next round he gonna fix it with a line about a MAC- no wonder you never had a "Genius Bar"
You hear this boy? "Loso all performance like Hitman, he ain't really spitting no ether."
But why bring up Holla pen?
Yo's (Jalapenos) ain't got that much kick to it either
This diva was acid reflux, gassed up cause he was frying Chess (chest)
But I can care less if your 16's deadly, mine are (minor) threats
See the typical rapper right here would say something about the Iron Chef
Or how they should've gave me Iron, Chef
But since that ain't it chief, I'm eyeing Chef
You get it? The word "chief" you just put an "i" in (iron) "Chef"
Boy try your best, I ain't respecting this bum
Outta all my real homies, you was never the one
Just like a fake friend, they wanna see you doing good but never better than them
They said it's begun, am I the nicest Christian?
Well that question is dumb
Mother Teresa got the top spot, only cause I'm second to none (Nun)
You better refund, every line how you packed heat in the back street where it's abandoned
But why would I care about your rap sheet when my rap sheets wrap sheets around your talent?
I am valid, you knew my state of mind, that every time I went to Georgia I didn't leave until your state was mine
That's why I got charisma, punches and a flow that's cold
I knew you was gonna lose round 1, I just came here so you wouldn't lose your soul
[Round 2: Chef Trez]
I say the first hurt him but the second round set him down when shots hit him
I heard him prayin' over and over
I thought he was Christian, now I'm on the spot trippin'
He done prayed to God like four times, I'd shoot again but the shot missin'
By the fifth prayer a cap hit his head, I make Salat with him
I got him at gun point, two burners but don't worry both gon' spray
First the fo' fo' wave then I aim like Fabolous album, the fifth Loso's Way
Aye you prayin', sayin' you a Christian, won't get you outta this one
That's a silly move
Nigga always talkin' 'bout "God got him."
Baow, now He really do
War, famine, conquest, death, some of the things that the 4 Horsemen symbolize
So with them lines, how the fuck that tie into y'all Christian God?
Oh I get it, collecting tithes from battle leagues, fuckin' vultures
And y'all really are here to destroy, the fuckin' culture
Ain't no respect, I mean how could I respect frauds
You gotta collect tithes, I can't miss this collect call
I suit up for war, you suit up cause you think the look is good
You read the good book, my niggas gettin' booked for good
Nigga you can't dodge death, it ain't Chef Trez no more, it's God's Chef
If you understand, nod "yes"
See bein' hard headed gon' get yo' squad stretched
I keep that revolver as close as you keep a Bible and the irony
As soon as I let it open you meet God next
See how my mind in a dirty state?
They like, "Trez, you gon' hear Loso with a .38
And give a Christian the best PG he can ask for, the Pearly Gates."
And I say off rip I let the semi blow
It is like TSA I check niggas if I sense that there's any smoke
But yo Smack, you ain't even screened this nigga
You just tryin' to give him a spot
I had to go to war and earn mine, that's the difference in stock
You sayin' I lost all my battles on URL and I won't get to the top
I'm Nino on the roof, all these tiers I face but my brother, I'm still the one givin' the shot
Whatchu gon' do? Pray for me? Well let's see if it reach a demon
As soon as you bow ya head you drop, both of these are swingin'
First punch killed by the cross, Jesus treatment
Then the Second Coming since that's somethin' that he believe in
When I was growin' up it was all love, I was screamin' "Fuck Satan."
Then it turned into bein' a trunk raiser, reachin' for pumps, gun blazers
Ain't have a choice, cause for no reason niggas will front page ya
So nigga what prayer?
How you gon' save my soul (sole) when I barely have one, like Chuck Taylors
Loso! We ain't alike in this shit, ain't nothin' even
All that fuckin' preachin'
You can't tell them 'bout me ain't nothin' secret
But I'll clutch and squeeze it, up close and personal with a slug he bleedin'
It spread everywhere, I guess I'm holy now, cause I'm covered with the blood of Jesus
Aye, I'm startin' it, Transformin' shit, liftin' double arms again
Adam and Eve, no these don't need, that's some retarded shit
David and Goliath, nah for this situation that's an awkward fit
I'm Peter and Paul for this cause once he gets split, he'll never be able to eat wit' y'all again
I say time again, I think like Loso don't know what time it is
I'm an original here, the father in this shit
No lies with this
Oh no one can beat you but a select few? I guess I'm one of the guys that fit
Y'all really want God bodied? Well they had to book a nigga that fit in that 5%
They say it's a white, black and a brown Jesus
Nigga all that let me know is y'all never really found Jesus
Nigga, I'll have you X-Box'ed in the ground, nigga fuck faith
We known to black like a Genesis, think it's a game, keep up, wait
I'll give him 30 seconds, he better be gone in ten tho (Nintendo) when guns spray
P.S. the .4 wavin', but I gotta download for you to get the update
I say my nigga we battled some of the same people, but this kid trippin'
They battled me cause of respect
They battled you for a check, that's a big difference
It's a beast in you, but you won't unleash him yet and that's what you need to do
You spend all this time tryin' to make them believe in Him
When you need to make 'em believe in you
[Round 2: Loso]
Now you know neither one of us gone lose right, we both gon' win
I mean you battled in Atlanta, I battled in Atlanta
You got a Hispanic first name, I got a Hispanic first name
Santrez we're twins
Aye but where we separate, I won't clown you for it, like you did JC and his dance issues
Went online to said you wanna fight Myers cause y'all ain't battle at Summer Madness 7
Wait, wasn't that you and Dan's issue
Boy we had a plan witchu
It was Trez, Loso, Riggz, Newz, we were so dominant
Both conquering, showing we can get a name without a coke sponsorship
Couldn't believe the hype around us, even tho most doubted it
They saw Johnny Unite us, and thought we had a cult following
I was so bothered when Santrez left, I said San was a beast, my man in the streets, had to watch him get 30'd over and over and just stand in defeat, it's no point for me to kill him, Understand what I mean, Sure After Wavy washed you, this is like me bringing San (Sand) to the beach
What we talking bout, How you aim and bang, “and these cans gon get me awake if I'm sleeping on you”, boy it's the same old same
Who got this "Rockstar" "Amped" thinking he a "Monster" with the lamest gang?
I don't wanna hear non of that "Red Bull" tell 5 our (Hour) Energy ain't the same
Mayne, that was crazy right? You see how I really got all your mans hatin'
Exactly why I said 5 Hour Energy, that was me takin' a little shot at your gas station
Boy this past hatin'
Aye Smack what you after boy? A lght searcher?
Vice Versa, I see why you trusted in a Pastor, Troy
Boy you rappin' noise, always wanna play the victim of how you got placed in prison
Well now the father ain't forgive him
Boy you got all these questions and you just wanna make decisions
You got all these questions for God right?
BOW! Go have a conversation with him
Wait wait wait
I know Twork's over there like, "Man. Loso's the fakest Christian."
No stupid, can't you see we kind of prayin' different?
I told that man, "Bow, go have a conversation with him."
Do you even make decisions?
Or you just gonna follow Roc's shadow with your plans in his hands?
Funny we saw Tay (saute) cook and knew Chef's career was a flash in the pan
Boy I laughed at this man
When he told Chess, "I'll put in Chess (chest), and take it out Chess (chest)
I'll put it in Chess (inches), and take it out Chess (inches)."
Now I don't play Trez, and I don't hate Trez, but I'ma say Trez, that was gay Trez
The hell was going through your mind when you wrote that?
That's the type of stuff you kick fam'?
Well that ain't it man
What would Jesus do?
I'ma (w)rap about it like a wristband
You should've kept it mellow (Melo), but chose a harder way (Hardaway) like a Knicks' fan
Why let the fifth blam? Charlie in a small room, I had to get them Clips Banned
Cause it was weighin' on my goals, like Shawn in The 6th Man
Boy!
I will split San' talk like a man lil boy, ain't no if ands
But this will slowly sink in after I make it quick San' (quicksand)
Boy you know what it is fam'
Let me set the table for Chef cause this plate is a course to be told
Stop worryin' if we were spoon fed my brother
Why are you still at a fork in the road?
See your brand is tied to URL pushin' your craft to these folks
You are in a glorified PG purgatory but be bragging the most
Only in small leagues are you actually known
But how you got a name "Chef" and can't find the right recipe for a Summer Madness or N.O.M.E.?
I know!
You ain't even the real Chef, Deal with it
Lemme make this real vivid
You were the main at Spit Dat Heat and only 20 people in attendance?
You mean to tell me the Chef was barely selling Mill (meal) tickets?
Boy chill listen
He hatin' on my rise to the top
And prolly right now he feels dumb
But it's like the 10 plagues in the Bible
Cause at first blood was in denial (the Nile), but I ended it when I had to kill son
I'ma real one, with charisma punches and a flow that's cold
I told you you was gonna lose round 2
Don't worry, you not gon' lose your soul

[Round 3: Chef Trez]
The fact that you think you cause any damage to me is playin' my fuckin' mind
You really think I lost sleep takin' this battle? Are you fuckin' fried?
I already had my biggest battle on Smack
Nigga I was done with mine the moment I hoped off stage after my brother died
Whatchu gon' say? I never made a N.O.M.E. or Summer Madness?
Well let's get it clear
I dealt with three deaths in June, I definitely seen summer madness this year
Now let's play Swear To God
Swear To God while I was locked up you wasn't on Facebook makin' posts
And Swear To God when I found out I called you, you wasn't on the phone actin' like a hoe
Nigga Swear To God you ain't almost turn your back on John after every-
You know what? I talked to God before this so it don't even matter
I said, "You gon' jump between me and Loso smoke?"
He said, "Nah, now this one. Cause Verb made the guardian angles duck."
He seen the gun I had and said, "Loso got this one."
Wait a minute, wasn't the Bible rewrote multiple times?
And y'all thinkin' that that book true?
Well we had attachments on sub .9's
So shit we even changed how the texts (TECs) looked too
But sometimes, your God be tryin' to save niggas from me
Like, "Nah, I shouldn't pull it today."
Cause He said, "Thou shall not sin (send)" and I did, 'bout six bullets his way
That's one for each day it took while your God was inventin' this place
But while He's speakin' I'm supposed to listen? Okay
How He gon' control me?
Adam and Eve, he couldn't even keep a bitch in her place
My little brother drown, a day later my homie got shot and killed
A few months before big brother got shot, I'm like, "Nah this not for real."
I'm missin' events in the box with chills
Thinkin' how bro died in that coma or how Gunnar lost his life holdin' his child, but your God is real?
I'm suppose to believe in him and give praise 'til my eyes shut?
Nigga, the whole time he was fixin' ya life, he was fuckin' mine up
You was in your room thinkin', writin' raps in your cell
I was in my room thinkin', writin' rap in a cell
You was on Google searchin' Bible scriptures trapped in a cell
I was behind them bars like sim card, trapped in, attached to a cell
Aye, but keep makin' up guns and watch these cats get buried
Fake burners, bitch I wish the one that hit my brother was imaginary
Aye but fuck it, let's get imaginary then
Baow! Now y'all can have an imaginary friend
You a hypocrite, [?] bitch get sent to the Lord
I say wanna be cocky, this a pussy nigga, a bitch and some more
Wannabe gangsta, can't fit in, know you won't get the support
He soft, if I spray the religious bitch it prolly smell like Christian Dior
We was supposed to battle awhile ago
You had fans thinkin' like, "How you got Chef?"
But nothin' will ever stop God's plan, right? So there's nothin' you can do to dodge death
Fuck it, .38 snub, tell him to try to dodge that
You goin' to Heaven but what usually happens after the nose blow? God bless!
They say you never lost and I never won
Y'all suckers trippin'
Me and him, when it come to competition there's somethin' different
A battled the best in the world and held my own, you see the fuckin' difference?
You battled decent niggas and it be close to an Edge
But oh I get it, the brother Christian
Aye didn't you win a trophy in the UK?
Nigga god damn, you should've brung that to America
Cause at N.O.M.E. we ain't seen much against against Scott land (Scotland)
Aw man, and what's up witchu chasin' Twork? You don't deserve it
Stop duckin' these other new niggas and actin' nervous
Aye Twork, think I shook his pride, but he ain't gon' look alive
BAOW! Knock off the top of his head now we can look inside!
Aye, I'm in a dark place
I'll spray and have shots hittin' ya girl
After I gun butt ya face
Now you dealin' with judgement day cause that's the end of your world
That's enough, you can't hand wit' a beast
They call it a pen, it sound like you complainin' to me
They say, "He Christian", I couldn't tell after he got hit in his brains with the heat
He got his head wrapped, I made the nigga change his beliefs
You tryin' to get paid for quotin' a Bible? Nigga that is a crook
This ain't a library, why you tryin' to get a check out a book?
Man time

[Round 3: Loso]
Now to prepare for this battle, I sat back
And begun to write
I knew son was nice
But I read Luke 8:17 and remembered
Whatever happens in the dark, is bound to come to light
Oh you better come to fight
They said "Loso can only beat Chef Trez if he freestyle"
That's funny I don't see how
My savior got two holes through his wrist, one in his feet
I'm undefeated when I'm trustin' in them three rounds
Boy this a beat down
You wanna be like Christ on the Cross then act tougher
The point is I can steal (still) assist you with boards like a stat stuffer
You just started getting views right?
Then why you tryin' to brag brother?
You needed JC for your first mil' (meal) it's only right I bring you to your Last Supper
Here's the facts brother
Back then, I was louder with the substance
And 'til this day!, I was wilder with the punches
Aye for months in, I seen that you was barkin' with ya pencil
And San' lot (Sandlot) of your games my dawgs (dogs) take offense (off fence) to
Wait, wait, wait
Suspenseful?
In round 1, I was too great when I blacked
You got beat before you rapped like Blueface on a track
This it's wack, tellin' me that Trez the winner
If that's the case, why they not messin' with ya?
Cause ya content don't move the crowds it's extra filler
You just a different character feeding us the same stuff like a Pez Dispenser
Oh you the best, remember?
Well you gotta learn the difference
That's why I be crematin' these broke rappers, just so they can earn (urn) a livin'
You want these worthless digits?
Life is more than racks in a back pack handed in front your peers
Cause when the sky crack, He might shake your hand but He ain't giving out Champion Of The Year
Let's make it clear, you don't reach for the burner, then hit each witness
Boy if you reach and it's Murda, it's Whiskey Business
This risky, listen
Y'all thinkin' that this guy better, well I'll never
Get checked by a kid even if you try mister (trimester)
1,2,1,2, I'll get his side severed, now it's hurting him to laugh like Kawhi Lenord {giggle}
I should've side bet them,but why let up?
Cause when blood don't stop you gotta apply pressure
Boy this my era, so you gotta see me Twork
You was on the road to success until you seen me skrrrr
Now my team we, seem weak, but I bet he beat these jerks
A. Ward talk to him!

[A. Wad]
Aye bro I would but Norbes said I gotta do a PG first

[Loso]
A PG?
I just wanted you to rap on your own
A-a-a P-? Ohhhh, you mean a battle at NOME?
Yeeeeah, I've grown to take battles that are dope and displayin' this nice skill
You take a battle cause you're broke, and ain't finished payin' ya light bill
See I might feel, like I can maybe do this
Ice this with an easy flow if the cadence ruthless
Why'd you team up with this punk, Roc(k)? This ain't 80's music
Now watch the tables turn for Chef that's a Lazy Susan
Listen, you crazy stupid, if you tyin' to listen to my words so you can rebuttal it tonight
But if you really wanna prove my round wrong why don't you rebuttal it with ya life?
Case and point
When you hear bad news you grab the chrome and go
When I hear Bad Newz I'm praying on the phone with bro
See I ain't tryin' to throw no stones, and I know that's not tough
But maybe we'd respect you more if you weren't glorifying the life that got my homeboy shot up
You still a little kid Santrez
You think you can go through what we go through and still be keeping the faith?
Trez lyin', Dez Bryant, he wouldn't last a week with the Saints
It's getting deep in this place
With these battle rappers, and their righteous standards
Claiming "God didn't answer my prayer.", when in reality you just didn't like His answer
Boy who the hell are you to question God?
You should've known your mind will ruin it
That's why I don't claim to know what God is doing, I just know the God who's doing it
See I'm cool with if
Y'all don't really rock with me or don't understand me for being Christian
Cause I'd rather y'all clown me for being godly, than God damn me for being wicked
This is different, then that usual punch punch when you landing a couple
I'm more concerned when you stand before God and don't get a chance to rebuttal
That's why I came here with charisma, punches and a flow that's cold
Boy you my mans no matter what Trez, but I promise I won't let you lose your soul1