**Translated Lyrics:**

[Verse 1]  
I’m a broken machine, what if I malfunction? (Ah)  
What if I burn out my circuits against my will?  
I need to stand tall, what if I fall to the ground?  
What if I’m the one who ruins a sack of figs? (Ah)  
If I were to think again,  
Would I make the same mistake twice? I doubt it.  
Oh no, I won’t be fooled again,  
It’s so hard to find what I’m looking for (Wow).  
I don’t get answers to the questions I ask,  
If the answer is clear, I won’t ask the question.  
My teeth are sharp, but don’t worry, I won’t bite.  
They tell me, “Just finish it already,” but I won’t diminish.  
Let’s fix this conversation; I don’t enjoy it.  
I doubt I like most of them anyway.  
If I could be where I want, when I want,  
I’d fly anywhere like Superman (Ah, ah, ah).

[Chorus]  
Stop denying, accept it,  
You have no choice but to accept (No, no, no, no).  
Stop denying, accept it,  
You have no choice but to accept (No, no, no, no).  
It’s so hard to find what you’re looking for (So hard, so hard, go).  
It’s really tough to find what you’re looking for (So hard, ah, so hard).  
It’s so hard to find what you’re looking for (So hard, so hard, go).  
It’s really tough to find what you’re looking for (So hard, Sago, so hard).

[Verse 2]  
On the three hundred sixty-sixth day (Oh), my face is turned towards me again (Aha).  
My dwelling changes when the mask is seen through.  
Your ribs are breaking, like a panda, my trust is dwindling.  
Loneliness is as close as a tree in the forest (Ah).  
Hey, would you be my sun if I asked?  
The darkness surrounding me from this curtain,  
Even if I can’t see far away,  
Everything feels so distant since I’ve known myself.  
I’m not sure about what I want to know (Ah).  
You’ll wear yourself out knowing what you know.  
Don’t deny it, accept it, you’re chasing it.  
Even though you know you’ll regret knowing, why?  
You’ve only got your mind left, and they can’t take that from you.  
Search and find, they can’t hide for long (What?).  
When you know what’s going to happen, you can’t be too surprised.  
The hound has stopped now; they can’t run anymore (Hah).

[Chorus]  
Stop denying, accept it,  
You have no choice but to accept (No, no, no, no).  
Stop denying, accept it,  
You have no choice but to accept.  
It’s so hard to find what you’re looking for (So hard, so hard).  
It’s really tough to find what you’re looking for (So hard, so hard).  
It’s so hard to find what you’re looking for (So hard, so hard).  
It’s really tough to find what you’re looking for (So hard, so hard).