MC, make another hit
Hit the road Jack, and don't ya come back (Project, Project X)
No more, no more, no more, no more (Hah, ayy, turn me up)
Hit the road Jack, and don't ya come back no more (What you say? Ayy, ayy, turn me up
Turn me up, turn me up, turn me up)
Hit the road Jack, and don't ya come back (Turn me up, turn me up, turn me up)
No more, no more, no more, no more (Hah)
Hit the road Jack, and don't ya come back no more (Ayy, ah, ayy, ayy, ayy) (Old w—)

[Verse: IShowSpeed]
When I hop on this shit, and I'm droppin' a six in the back and I rock my Vans
I get in my chill and I swear to God, admit it, I better not put that on friend
Niggas up wit' a chop where the stick stay
Niggas up wit' a chop on a mean man
Wanna chop, wanna stop, wanna speed?
Nigga, stop what you talk, wanna feel like a bee?
Back wit' a chop, niggas on scare t'day
Rich, I wanna feel like a belay
Rich, I wanna feel like a relay
Jump on that shit and I feel like a relay
Race, race
Niggas is puttin' up stakes, stakes
Niggas on crack, on the bay, bay
Bangin' the D's and I'm fuckin' the delay, choppa, let's play
Ride, ride, ride to the muhfuckin' Vertt, Vertt
Tryna tell me that I'm MCVertt, Vertt
Wanna chop on the top of the cop car
Niggas wan' chop and I feel like a wor-word
Ayy, wanna hop on a jersey?
Niggas on dicks, so I gotta get sturdy
Niggas don't want but I gotta get, buddy
I gotta get dizzy, I gotta get it started
I hop on the chop, running up on the gang
Niggas on dick, man, I feel like the rain
Nigga vibe with a chop, wanna feel like a name?
Wanna chop, wanna feel like a bang?
Bang, bang, bang
Bang my speed, speed, speed
Makin' you see, see, see
Like fuck do you mean, mean, mean?
Back in the grade, didn't know what to do
Niggas O.D. but I bump in the stu' (Ah)
But I'm on my step, when I walk in the crew
Like fuck it, you know, what the chop gonna do
And I'm screaming out "Speed gang!"
Nah, nigga, Speed gang!
Wanna hop on this shit
Want to chop with a feel
Man, I'm feeling like a rename (What? What?)
I feel like gorilla, my nigga, my trues are now really now fuller than niggas, I feel like a bed (Arf, arf, arf, arf, arf, arf, arf, arf)
Put in more cheese I'm not built like a bitter nigga, shoot better
Sure about who did you shoot, like what? (Arf, arf, arf, arf, arf, arf, arf)
Like what? Like what? (Arf, arf, arf, arf)
I said now it's what (Arf, arf, arf, arf, arf, arf)
Now what, now what, what, what, what? (Arf, arf, arf, arf, arf, arf)
You might also like[Bridge: Lauryn Hill]
Ready or not, here I come, you can't hide
Gon' find you and take it slowly
Ready or not

[Chorus: IShowSpeed]
Shake, shake, shake, shake-shake, shake, shake, shake, shake
Now bou-bou, bou-bou-bou, bou-bou-bou
Now bounce that ass, bounce that ass
Bou, bou-bou-bou
Bou-bounce that ass, bounce that ass, bounce that ass, bounce that ass
Now suck that cock, cock, cock, cock, cock, cock
Now suck that cock, cock, cock, cock, cock, cock
Now shake that ass (Arf, arf), shake that ass (Arf, arf)
Shake that ass (Arf, arf), shake that a-shake that ass (Arf, arf)
I said now shake, shake (Arf), shake, shake (Arf)
Shake, shake (Arf), shake, shake (Arf)
Shake that ass, shake that ass (Arf)
Shake that ass (Arf), shake that a-shake that ass (Arf)
Shake that ass

[Outro: IShowSpeed, The Raelettes, IShowSpeed & The Raelettes, Ray Charles]
We out this bitch, nigga
Buy that merch, link in description, nigga
Fuck you mean?
Hit the road Jack, and don't ya come back
No more, no more, no more, no more
Hit the road Jack, and don't ya come back
No more (What you say?)
Hit the road Jack, and don't ya come back
No more, no more, no more, no more
Hit the road Jack, and don't ya come back no more24