**Translated Lyrics:**

[Intro: Daddy Yankee]  
DY  
Dididiri Daddy  
Oh, yeah (Wuh!)  
Turn it up!  
I had a great time with you (Mmm, yeah)  
Maybe this wasn't even real (Mmm, boss!)  
I won't deny it, I can't get you out of my mind (Tell me)  
I wish I could go back again (How?)  
And give it to you one more time (Daddy, Daddy)  
And I'm not planning to stop, you're my addiction (So, turn it up)

[Chorus: Daddy Yankee]  
Ah, addictive  
You left me wanting to taste more of you  
Hooked, hooked, that's you  
Ah, addictive  
You have me desperate without knowing anything about you (Uah, uah; we were!)

[Verse 1: Anuel AA]  
I'm addicted to your body  
I get high off you and undress you (Eh-eh)  
Baby, I need your overdose like a junkie (Eh-eh)  
You have me hooked and I'm buried inside you (Buried)  
Baby girl, you have me sick  
And if you're not here, it's hell, eh-eh  
And we ignite in flames  
And you crawling on my bed (Uah)  
And I know you don't love me  
But my body calls for you; uah, uah (Baby)  
Love isn't here, I know it (I know it)  
A well-told lie is believed (Is believed)  
You're my heroine  
And how sweet that flower with thorns is (Tell me!)

[Chorus: Daddy Yankee, Anuel AA]  
Ah, addictive (Tell me!)  
You left me wanting to taste more of you  
Hooked, hooked, that's you  
Ah, addictive  
You have me desperate without knowing anything about you  
Oah, oah (We were!)

[Verse 2: Daddy Yankee]  
Those pink lips are divided (Tss, yeah)  
Whoever gets down there is blessed (Blessed)  
I'm going to crash there even if I end up messed up (Shu!)  
You're my drug and you have me breaking the cold (Turn it up!)  
Your kisses got into my veins (Eh!)  
Your slave without putting on chains (Wuh!; prr)  
With pleasure, I'll serve my sentence  
Throw me the key, baby  
You know how it is, I can't let it go (Eh, eh, eh, eh)  
You act in many ways and get me hooked (Eh, eh, eh, eh)  
And we ignite in flames  
And you crawling on my bed (Turn it up!)  
I know you don't love me (Hey!)  
But my body calls for you, baby (Prr; come on!)

[Chorus: Daddy Yankee, Anuel AA]  
Ah, addictive (Tell me!)  
You left me wanting to taste more of you  
Hooked, hooked, that's you  
Ah, addictive  
You have me desperate without knowing anything about you  
Oah, oah

[Outro: Daddy Yankee, Anuel AA]  
If they tell you I'm getting better, it's the truth  
You're psychoactive, like sativa  
If they tell you I'm getting better, it's the truth  
You're psychoactive, like sativa  
Real Until Death, baby (Uh, yeah)  
Real Until Death, baby  
Daddy, Daddy, Daddy Yankee, eh (Cartel)  
Uah, uah  
You know who this is (Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey)  
The best of all time, baby (Yeah, yeah, yeah)  
The twenty-three (Haha!)  
Daddy Yankee and Anuel  
Brr (Brr)