This is a certified bell pepper

[Verse 1: SEBii]
I'ma hit him like a bell, 'cause I'm hot like a pepper
I be sendin' shells, hollow, yeah, just like a pepper
I'ma let it rain on you like the weather
'Cause I got that money like a bank (Teller)
Yeah, you know I'm better, I could never be a debter
Yeah, I've gotta dress sharp 'cause you know I'm countin' cheddar
Yeah, you know this shit forever, tough like it's leather
I be addin' up on my bucks 'cause I'm clever
I don't give a fuck (Oh), I just run it up (Oh)
I never have enough (No), 'cause I love to buy stuff
And you know my pockets stuffed
And you know that shit the most
And I know that I'm a clown
That's why she be actin' sus

[Verse 2: siilent]
B-B-Bell peppers fuckin' great, yeah
They got different colors, they got different kinds of tastes, bruh
Cook 'em like fajitas, and we sear 'em like some steak, yeah
Pull up with that choppa, spray that shit at—, I've been informed I can't say that
Oh, you done fucked up now, y'all sound like bitches
Chop your ass in half like you're some keto pepper sandwhiches
Can't cook, can't get no bitches, wouldn't know flavor if it hit 'em in the motherfuckin' face
I'll beat your brakes off with a pepper
Chainsaw to your face, I'm leavin' ***** on a stretcher
Like, what the fuck? (Fuck, fuck, fuck)
Keep this shit up, you gon' end up in a dump truck
Smokin' on that *** (Oof), lil' pussy, get your lungs up
You might also like[Verse 3: swazy*]
I'm finna roll my opps in a quesadilla
Oh damn, we so damn fresh, what's left of peppers in the freezer
Okay, I gotta step away from my friends, they goofy (I'm on my gay sh**)
You wanna be my opp so bad, let's make a movie and shoot it out
Double cup for my drink, tortilla for my plate
I'm finna drive to the bell pepper killers and shoot shit up all day
This Glocky got no safety, hit you in your fuckin' face
I'ma have 4cf bleedin' through the backstreets, I ain't talkin' "Jade"
Don't get me started on rouri, that boy bitch made
Cigarettes ain't cheaper when you drunk, you just a cheapskate
I got .30 in the blick, blow it at anybody sayin' ****
​briss always tryna talk some shit, I ain't gon' listen to what they say
Your whole personality is your dog, ain't much in your brain
​austyn with a y, yeah, that's my dawg, but he ain't even safe
I see "ispy" carrying your stats right now, I'm glad to help
Bro ain't had a job in so damn long, go back to Taco Bell
(I am so sorry, austyn)
I heard Bond. produced that shit, I gotta see it to believe it
Oh, and that one TikTok clown, forgot his name, get his tag and repeat it (KARI)
Oh yeah, that's his name
Goofy, know his ass is lame
BP4L, if you ain't thinkin', you ain't gettin' past the gang

[Verse 4: Voda Fuji]
Ayy, ayy, huh
BPS, we some big steppers
Shot him through the window
Turn the whip into a bell pepper
Red guts, yellow diamonds on me
I'm a trendsetter
If they want it, we can get to cheffin'
Red stuff inside the duffle like a bell pepper
My seed all up in your wife, she a bell pepper
Chop his top off right now, he's a bell pepper
Guess he let the green get to his noggin like a bell pepper (This that olive oil)
Don't get lost in the sauce
And these pussies switchin' sides, talkin' tough, fingers crossed
Talkin' 'bout some onions, that shit mid, I'ma boss up
Am I going raw or am I grillin'? It's a toss-up
Bell peppers, this shit hot, fuckin' Cayenne
Losers talkin' shit again, I'm handin' them Trident
Twitter fingers soundin' like some dirty ass violins
Rah, rah, rah, y'all sound like "We're with the violence!"
Some dork ass, nerd ass, non pepper lovin' ass
Probably on that PC, chicken nuggets in the oven ass
Ugly ass, stupid ass, hatin' on a vegetable ass
Lord, hoo, y'all on that struggle
[Interlude: termes]
Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait
Cut this shit off
Looks like we got some baby ass bitches
That can't handle a damn bell pepper
Like, are you kidding me, bro?
You gotta be that fat to not eat a damn bell pepper?
Like, grow the fuck up

[Verse 5: termes]
You talk about killin' on half of y'all songs
But you scared of a pepper, yeah
Bitch, you a fatass boy, bitch, you built like you Peppa (Oink)
All of my money different colors, bitch, it look like a pepper (It look like a what?)
All of you pussy boys sweet just like bell pepper
I switch up my flow (Switch up my what?), switch up the ho (Switch up the ho)
Glock gotta switch, I'm aimin' for dome (Aimin' for dome)
I'm aimin' for dome, I knock off his dome (I knock off his dome)
He talkin' that shit (Talkin' that what?), hit his bitch ass with the chrome

[Verse 6: nyquik]
I understand what they [?]
Get off of me, you just bell pepper without the bell
You just like havin' burgers, bitch, you smell
[?] where they fell off
Try talkin' bell pepper gang, that's a [?]
Know he talkin' cap on his name, what you made of?
Keepin' up on [?], you a full [?] table
Actin' [?] the FDA label
[Verse 7: damani]
Bell peppers like the rainbow, what you mean you don't like colors?
Child, you eat yo veggies, gonna tuck you in the covers
We go crazy, in asylum, like a shotty we gon' stop 'em
Ask 'em what they sniffin' out, guess who gotta snuff 'em, ayy
Pick up all my peppers 'cause they got to go on my dinner
Hatin' on a pepper, you a sinner, get delivered, uh
Char you like a pepper when I put it on the grill
This diss was already [?], now you're the bell

[Verse 8: heyitsbenji]
If you don't fuck with peppers, I don't fuck with you, lil' bitch
Keep on hatin', I'ma come over your house and rob your shit
They so good when you eat it raw with the hummus dip
I don't give a shit, BP gang, yeah
I'ma pull up to your house and spray your motherfuckin' nutsack
People who eat bell peppers are hotter, that's a fuckin' fact
Get the fuck out of my face, you're clapped
You can eat peppers as a snack
I ain't ever gonna stop gettin' my bag
Yeah, I'm gay, I pledge allegiance to the flag
Doin' this shit for three years, and I don't have a tag
'Cause I don't need that, yeah, I don't need that
Red, orange or green, what color you want?
Smokin' on this gas from the break of dawn
I ain't even fuckin' with somebody who don't fuck with peppers
They are the bestest, haha

[Instrumental Interlude]

[Verse 10: Ducku]
Bell peppers
I need you in my life
If I could marry a veggie, you would be my wife
Put a ring on your stem and get on one knee
Why can't they love you? Can they not see?
Bell peppers
I need you in my life
If I could marry a veggie, you would be my wife
Put a ring on your stem and get on one knee
Why can't they love you? Can they not see?

[Verse 11: Babebee]
I fuck it up, I'm a lover, I can't lie
You're getting caught up in flames, burning, I say bye (Bye)
Only one warning
Take it back unless you wanna catch these hands
Baby, if you wanna join our side, I understand, yeah
I stack them up (Up, up)
Just like racks (Woo, woo!)
When you put them in
It never lacks
So much flavor
Baby, haters mad 'cause they fucking lack
Yellow, red, green: come inside
There ain't one I don't like
Your girl called me up saying she's coming over
We're cooking up beats, making heat with bell peppers

[Verse 12: anem0s]
Y'all need to grow up, startin' shit like I'ma set it off
Get cut up like a pepper, better take a paracetamol
Body bags gettin' stuffed, better listen to what I say to y'all
Got caught up acting goofy, watch this bullet get your brain installed
Tired of the word, so I'ma say BP
Eat your veggies, eat your greens
Momma's boy, you actin' weak
Don't you ever picky eat, I better never hear a peep
Some shit like, "Mom, I'm hungry," bitch, you better go to sleep, yeah

[Verse 13: ​bassea]
I love bell peppers on the weekdays
I love bell peppers on the weekends
I love bell peppers in my free time
I love bell peppers when I see them
[?] for me
You can't step to me 'cause you know it's not a secret
Bell peppers [?]
And now it's killin' me that you don't see it the same way
Motherfuckers wanna start some shit, the ghost of veggies, bitch
Bitch, you know you need [?]
Bell peppers, I love these treats
That I would like to eat for every meal, every fucking day

[Verse 14: ilykare]
Fuckin' with a bell pepper, eat it up, that's what I love
I can always look into my fridge and I can pick one up
Bite like it's an apple, really fills me up
Can't believe this shit started on Twitter before I was up
Bell pepper, bell pepper, bell, I can see them
I be fuckin' with the crew, and we eat 'em as a team
How could you hate on the green, can you not see what I can see?
It's full of nutrients and healthy things that keeps you feeling clean

[Verse 15: isaacoz]
Fuck BPK, we get big bags
[?] was so dumb, no, I don't want it back (Nah)
You were on your shit, I ain't look up to that (Nah)
You were not there, now I'm lookin' out back
I was testin' you, I was there before this shit
And you know I didn't have it
All these kids want another side, they can have it
And you know there's [?] askin' if they gonna have it
You just pick a side and you gonna watch what happens, yeah
Look up to you and you know I trust no one anymore in the war
In the war, ah, ah

[Verse 16: kaihaunted]
Green like my bands, ayy, yuh
Wanna throw hands, ayy, yuh
Red like stop it, hit yo bitch like a Bop It
Yellow like slow, watch where you go
Step to the team, you better know
Your girl came around, we stuff her like pepper
That drip fake as fuck, what I'm wearing is wetter
Hotter than fajitas, bitch
4cf, you ain't Jesus, bitch
Step to the peppers, we air out the block
Runnin' it up, we killin' the opps
Put you lower than bedrock
You a baby cradle, rock
Bitch

[Verse 17: livewiress]
I feel like a bell pepper the way I'm fuckin' based
If you don't fuck with bell peppers, I hate you and your face (Yeah)
These shits are so delicious, I just love the taste
'Bout to eat a bell pepper, I can't fuckin' wait, yeah
I love the taste, I be eatin' bell peppers 'til there's nothin' on the plate, yeah
[?]
Throw out his bell peppers and it's not like you don't care, yeah

[Verse 18: Musicubes]
I'm not even a rapper, but let me tell you about some of the stuff I like to make with bell peppers
There's this pasta sauce with like, bell peppers and onions and heavy cream and parmesan cheese, fantastic
You can get these mini bell peppers and stuff 'em with goat cheese
And like, put some herbs on top, maybe like some honey or some spices, you know, it's like a great snack, you know
For like parties, like dinner parties, you know what I'm saying?
It's like a hors d'oeuvres type thing, you know what I'm saying?
All around, all around great vegetable
Like, if you don't like bell peppers, you're a bad person, straight up
For real, y-y-you, you're not a good person
I swear to God, bro, like for re—

[Verse 19: mxrtyn]
I love peppers, they look like a stop sign and they're sweet as fuck
They're good raw or sautéed and they're cheap, a great bang for your buck
If you don't rock with bell peppers, then I cannot rock with you
Tommy, rouri, 4cf, and briss, I cannot talk to you
Pepper on my wrist like a G-Shock
Rather keep the pan hot, gotta let the .9 pop
Bell pepper shooters, make 'em scream, what the fuck
If you hate peppers, then you're jaded and you better run

[Verse 20: spagdus]
Pepper [?], bitch, [?] counterfeit
I spent all my authentic cash on pepper shit
Don't need more racks, I got [?] with a fuckin' weird ass group
I'm talkin' shit, I'm goin' in, I knock you out, one, two
And my hand are strong as fuck, I don't give a fuck
I'm runnin' up my bank account, I'm rockin' [?]
You got no confidence and your girl wanna fuck
She suck my penis, yeah, [?]
You're weak and you can't eat the pepper
Tell me how you feelin', huh

[Verse 21: cav3y]
Y-Y-You don't eat your fruit or veggies, must be bitch made
I got my money up, you thinkin' that I'm gettin' rich paid
I bet you eatin' jellied eels, get yo fish weighed
And I don't think that my playlist is ever gonna miss "Jade"
Eatin' bell peppers, bitch, I got my bones strong (Bones strong)
How the fuck you 5'5"? Bitch, you grown wrong (Bitch, you grown wrong)
If you hatin' bell peppers, bitch, you so wrong (You so wrong)
This a pepper game, this is what you don't want
Slander the bell peppers, then the gang we get to poppin'
Red, yellow, orange, green, bitch, we got the options
And if my kid don't fuck with bell peppers, that's adoption
Otherwise, his bones gon' be soft, like they made of cotton

[Verse 22: f1nley]
[?], better speak to these veggies
[?] it's too much, they shouldn't say their opinions
Pepper store, believe me, I used to fuckin' [?] it
Bell pepper Twitter, like one question
Who asked for your opinion?
It's ridiculous, lookin' every day, [?]
Love bell peppers, yeah, me too
[?]
[?], it's just a matter of time
Until we [?]
[?] if it's lonely and you're hurtin' inside
I'll let you in on a secret, you're never leavin' [?]
So cut straight to the chase, and come and beg for forgiveness

[Verse 23: futureseeker]
You got no peppers, you say veggie, that's a fruit, ayy
[?], they're more cute, ayy
Boy, you actin' and startin' shit, it's so mean
Yeah, you better watch your back for red and green
If you're beefin' with a fruit, you're homophobic
Turn you to a veggie, know your track is [?]
4cf is bad taste, underscores is bad taste
NEUTRAPOP is bad taste, don't BPK got bad taste?
Bell peppers for life, we eatin' so good
This three version snack, loved it since childhood
All the negativity, you just hate
Wastin' time, you're missin' out, bells on my plate
Cut them up and stir fry, or just eat 'em raw
You've only got one breath, then you get [?]
[?] for fucking veggies, you've got the taste of a child
Probably rather eat a bagel, know I'm BP4L

[Verse 24: Hachi]
Don't talk shit about my bell peppers
Pull up, get called out by the peppersteppers
Don't step up to the bell pepper reppers
If you don't like bell peppers, then you're a leper
Ring bells like your funeral
Plant bell peppers on your tombstone
Wait a minute, don't die though
Honestly, it ain't for real, bro
I'll hold this pepper to your nose
Peppersteppers gettin' all the hoes

[Verse 25: devs]
[?] every day, bell peppers on the way
I'm just reppin' [?]
Ride like Santa in a sleigh
Ew, why are you touching [?]?
God damn, man, you are late
[?] shit full of underscores
And you're moppin' the floors down in the stores
One day I keep going
Got popped like [?], no coffin
[?], your opinions are very rotten
[?]
And make him [?]
Your face is so [?]

[Verse 26: odu]
I'm tired of seeing your face, it looks all the same
You know I wear designer, [?]
Thought you were cool, but you was a lame
Don't wanna talk to you, get outta my face
BP4L, leave you without a trace, leave you without a face
Said you don't like peppers, now I know you got no taste
Don't want any opinion from you 'cause I know you are stupid, fool
I don't even care (Woah, woah, woah)
Woah, now I'm doin' my tangent
Slap your head into a [?]
I asked your girl, we dancin'
Got her on me, she prancin'
She moanin' like crazy, Michael Jackson
Higurashi was borin'
Her ass got me snoozin', think her name was Susan

[Verse 27: NO HARM]
I ain't even eat bell peppers like that
But they still stay thick while you all stay mad
If you hate it, then your dick game probably so trash
And your songs suck ass, yeah, your songs suck, damn
Bitch, a bell pepper can rap better than you, damn
Bitch, a pepper raps better than you
Gets more pussy than you, didn't drop out of school, damn
Raps better than you

[Verse 28: Ty.mp3]
[?]
Niz on his Twitter askin' what the fuck I mean
Don't fuck with peppers, then I'll tell you what I'm finna do
Kick down the door, won't ring the bell before I pepper you
Got packed, it's on sight, got pepper on my plate
I'm snackin' all night, so watch 'em make me great
Fuck jalapeños, grab all your [?]
Put that shit inside your mouth if you want real spice
Red on the plate, yeah
With the spicy shit, got pepper on my plate
That new [?] wasabi give you nightmares
Got the dairy in my tummy, no, it's not fair
Oh wait, bell pepper, I got a couple colors on my plate
Fuck a yellow [?], yeah, that spicy shit only
[?]
Oh wait, oh wait, red on my plate, yeah
With the spicy shit, got pepper on my plate
That new [?] wasabi give you nightmares
Got the dairy in my tummy, no, it's not fair

[Verse 29: Kurtis]
Bell peppers, they stay lookin' pretty nice
I just love the way they taste, gotta savor all the [?]
If you had them, then I'd know you'd like 'em with the ice
Yeah, we bell pepper gang, and we reppin' it for life
See your interest, yeah, I know you wanna cook it, right
Ghost pepper, separate lanes, we gonna make you switch your side
Yeah, I know [?], we been lurkin' in the night
Gonna take the pepper seeds, you know we get our pepper up

[Verse 30: orachs]
Bell peppers, eat 'em all if you don't use some
Bell pepper haters, they ain't ever had some good grub
Talkin' 'bout that [?]
All the haters dumb as fuck
I'm learnin' how to [?]
Bell peppers leave you thunderstruck
[?], here's a bell pepper
Haters, they just mad 'cause they can't afford a new sweater
Lil' bro, we some bellsteppers, you just need to get better
Okay, that's all I got, eat some fucking bell peppers

[Verse 31: OG Lost]
Honestly, it's not the worst thing if you think bell peppers are mid
I thought that the only ones who hated them were kids (You're all kids)
Maybe one day you'll like 'em better when you grew big (Big and strong)
When you dig in, you'll realize you were wrong

[Verse 32: maiko]
You can't handle the spice, yeah, you bitch made
Leave your head right in the ditch, motherfucker, catch this fade
Bitch, you better run, bitch, you better run
Keep on talkin' shit, you know you not the one
Spices finna catch your ass, so, baby, don't you fuck with me
You don't know what this shit means, it's like a different symphony
Don't you fuck with me, the spice god, I know you envy me
Filled with rage and jealousy, but I ain't got no sympathy

[Verse 33: BillsBuryJoeBoi]
I'm eating bell peppers
I really like bell peppers
Bell peppers are really cool
If you don't like them, then you're a fool
Bell pepper killers, you all drool
You are all not really cool
You all look stupid 'cause you don't like bell peppers

[Verse 34: Backlight Noah]
Talkin' shit about bell peppers, I'ma turn this to a hitpiece
Tsun is built like a botched stick and poke
I don't even know if he's on the cypher, I just want all the smoke
​​​​sudbath is built like a bisexual Billy Ray Cyrus
Fvtal is built like every single white kid in the UK
No, literally put him in a lineup of other generic white kids and I wouldn't be able to tell him apart
Or actually, tell them all to order a pizza on the phone without stuttering, that would give him away
Motherfucker raps about murdering people when he's built like Andy Samberg
And Alk, you're not a "big deal," bitch, you make fucking Y2K banners
Dude is 6'7" for fucking what?
God, the men you put on this earth to play basketball are on Discord and won't shut the fuck up
Congrats k0a, the cypher you're on is now longer than your entire discography
And congrats briss, that verse was almost as ass as all your videography
You guys all shit on bell peppers when I know none of you eat veggies
All you do is sit inside, drink Monster, complain on Twitter and smoke reggie
Aight, back to the insults, I'm tired of rhyming
Of course rouri doesn't like bell peppers, dawg, we been knew you don't eat veggies
Screaming in all your songs because you can't go on rollercoasters, bro, we get it, just don't take it out on us
Dude played GORESET in the function and got his ass beat
Dude got his ass beat at school, so he started listening to GORESET
Gabby, I love you, but you wanna fuck a man in a fursuit
You act like it's a joke, but you literally wanna fuck a man in a fursuit
Viizzi talks a lot of shit for a man that lost his chin in a butterknife fight
I handed a shotgun to every member of gunrange and every single one of them started complaining and said it was too heavy
4cf use big ass words in his songs, we get it, bro, you read the dictionary
Nobody's counting, you can put the syllable chart down
Motherfucker makes music for Genius Verified first and to listen to second
In all seriousness, uh, all the people on here are close friends of mine
Uh, love you guys all dearly, and everything I've said here has been a joke
Like, I don't actually fuckin' think sudbath is built like—
​​​​tekko makes music for dorks that mutter shit to themselves in school
KARI is built like he had Gus Dapperton in his Spotify Wrapped top five
Sweeney swingin' like I can't just put my hand on his forehead and win the fight
And weial sing like a Machine Gun Kelly from Fisher Price