Not gonna lie...
I was pretty tired of people not appreciating me...
And my level of skill...I'm about to go in man
Check it out...mad mind

[Verse 1]
My verses ain’t fair! Truth or dare?
Couldn't touch them if you dared
Write stuff knowing that nobody cares
But do it for those who ain't impaired, musically
Started with nothing, so humor me
Still hovering around the same thing
Entered rap knowing I got no training, can’t sing
But still amazing, out here trying to get noticed
On a level close to Potus, you can ride my broom
Hocus Pocus, gonna give hope to the hopeless
Here bitch hold this, dreams do come true, it's a real saying
But it's cause of you, God can only take so much praying
So instead I make songs, I ask would it be wrong?
To reach for a life full of riches?
I don't think so, cause I couldn't picture myself washing dishes
Not moving up the ladder, don't care bout my ethnicity bitch
Not serving shit on a platter, unless it's shit on a platter!
Ha, can never go back to the start, the world is huge
I'm a lonely ship all alone in the ocean, please sir
Tell me, what’s all the commotion?
Ten thousand hours, still no promotion, so for now
I’m just coasting, I'ma big fish in a tiny bowl
Trying not to rap myself into a hole
Gotta have my own sound and my own look
Too many things to say no time for a hook
Not everything learned from a book!
Take what I want, your attention took!
Now start shaking, cause it’s your time I'm taking unlike yo girl
I am never faking, real music I'm making, was it all a dream?
A boring life I'm awaking, from, new me hard to get rid of
Stubborn piece of gum, burning passion matchin the heat
Of the sun, fuck no I’m not done!
This the barrel of a loaded gun, but what do I care
If you're more pro? The battle is over, the war has been won
Shit It don't matter if you're stronger than an army of soldiers
Sometimes you're Atlas and you gotta hold
The weight of the world up on your shoulders
And until that day comes, you'll never know if you've
Got what it takes, I feel surrounded by a horde of fakes
So what makes you better than me?!
What makes you more successful?!
Why is it the things I love be the things the most stressful?!
Calling out for help, please save me, argue with myself
Not crazy, sometimes I think that everybody hates me
All I got my girl, wait no I lost that, oh well
Where my tube socks at?
Guess I gotta give this everything I've got
Lord knows I'm tired but still keep my head up
Boost my spirits up, haters can just stay fed up
A lot of people wondering when I'ma let up
So if you think this is the end? Its just the set up!
Bitch, don't be scared by what you don't understand
Don't work for something as meaningless as a brand
Wouldn't sell my soul for a life that's planned
You just gotta be yourself man, man the fuck up yo
Cause nobody can do you, better than you can
Never let "insecurity" be a number one fan
Man I'll be damned, these shadows ain't gonna block my light
Not afraid of success, no competition in sight!
Yeah this is my right!
All it takes is fuel for the fire to ignite!
Only a failure when you stop trying, the day I give up my art
The day I start dying, nobody knows what I'm capable of
No not even me, only live once, we have to wait and see
Only time will tell if you become who you meant to be
Don't be a follower and kiss that ass, human centipede
Life's a game, Jumangi, a stampede, fuckin wildebeests
R.I.P. Mufasa now get the fuck out of mi casa
Fuck her while she does yoga, realign those chakras
All she wanna do is take shots bruh
Being honest I can't take shot bruh
Look man...check it out, for real though...
Full of pain, but I'ma influence this game, rich off lies
So where's all the shame?
Can't stand out, if we sound the same?
Driving myself insane, what I want is action for opportunities
Take a closer look at that diamond inside of your jewelry Everything comes at a cost, as we get older
Our spirit gets lost, innocence, that gets tossed
In the trash, I'm seeing kids in elementary smoking hash
If there's one thing I can do, it's take whatever I can get
Nobody will tell me no
The road ahead splits which way should I go?
Only got two choices, fight for what I want? Or live voiceless?
I know which path is right for me
Even though I don't believe in destiny
I made this track cause I was tired of
All these motherfuckers testin me!
So save your thoughts, prayers, and blank stares
For a soul that fuckin cares!...Yeah you heard me
Save your thoughts, prayers, and blank stares
For a soul that fucking cares, because I don't...I don't...yeah man
You might also like[Outro]
If you listened to this whole album
If you stepped into my mind
I wanna thank you, it's been real
I couldn't have done this without everyone supporting me
And if you just listened to this one song or the whole album
It means the whole world yo...my name is Ezra
This is my Mad Mind
And I hope you'll come back next time...