The lyrics you've provided are in Portuguese, specifically from a rap battle context. Below is the English translation that aims to preserve the meaning, tone, and emotional impact of the original lyrics while ensuring it flows naturally in English.

---

**So, my little Rui? Welcome, my boy**
Are you ready to receive some true hospitality?
I don’t know if you know, bro
But today you’re on the banks of the Tuga*
And here your style in this team is questioned
Because this Costa thinks he’s got style
But in Porto, he’ll never be respected
Not even if he paints the coast (Pinto da Costa)
So like a grumpy pig
We put Costa against the wall, Rui leans in
Did you want to be the king of this shit, bro?
Alright, my Rui King Bosta
The supposed rule is to be just another nobody in this world
And that? Was imposed on Rui
Because being a big fool isn’t for everyone, right?
But Rui, yes, he likes it
No? Bet you don’t?
I say moron comes in various forms, you bastard
And I have girls ready to drown out Rui’s noise behind his back, my dog
And your family won’t have answers, brother
Because in this kitchen with its own laws
Your sample will always be an unexpected bet
You think they won’t burn your bread if you give them ham on cheese?
You’re about to discover the new flavor of a mixed toast
My Rui Costa pisses
I see you’re an optimist, so great mister
We’ll trace your dentures in the color of pain
Whoever the choir is, we guide death for free
And like leeches, we love the grape
We harvest the variety in color
If it doesn’t affect the entrance, it might pass with luck
But if the import is scarce
They’ll show up at your door with a hunting license
But that’s just the supposed base of the support for the dough, pay attention
Because many fellas talk about pulling good
But then they’re all scared of Pesci
And in the land of Sully, you’d be silly food
You’d work white powder like Jesse’s plot
That shit leaves your coconut all glued together
And from all the bangs
I have more marked than Messi’s left foot
My boy, to sum it up
This cola sells more than Pepsi
By the way, unnecessary, right? Honestly
This guy is probably friends with fairies and reads books about elves
Right, you fucking idiot?
You know how I get rid of sickos?
I throw them to the ground and kick them in the face, a free dental service
And I doubt you’ll try
Because this dude looks like he’d rhyme some shit like:
“I kill themes with mathematics!”
My Saint Anthony
But there’s a thing about the value of numbers you don’t understand
You look like someone who’d leave the square happy
With 40 in your pocket worth 300
And those 300? They’re the same 300 from a Montana Chiraq remix
The same 300 I put in MK, turned into M capped
And that dude pulled an Alexandria library move
Burned everything he had written
Reciprocally, I went to eliminate the bold lines that separate our caliber
So that witch, I decorated him with cricos*
I framed his spell in the shape of a bitch and crowned him like a crucifix
Rest in piss, bitch
But for you, my Ruizecas
What do we have for you?
Maybe discuss some principles you haven’t understood
Of Hip Hop, the Hip?
Comes from what’s glued to the hip, this shit was never hippie Hop
You wanted to be an opponent, so tippy top
The motto around here is keep it opp
You wanted to vlog the street?
That’s not what gives you street cred on the block
For that type of flop, many have flipped to the morgue
And today? Just because I feel like it
There’s no better reason
I’ll give you Spanish until your accent only knows how to say: “Yes, sir!”
I leave you on the brink of death, celebrating with a shot of Ciroc
You haven’t seen this level of violence among whites
Since Eminem turned MGK into a bitch of Rock
But don’t take it badly, bro
This isn’t something many idiots would do
And from what the boss said
There weren’t many volunteers for this path
So imagine my joy
When I found out I’d have an adversary today
But who would’ve thought it’d be this son of 30 bitches full of trisomy
But beware, five of them have a master’s in AIDS through economics
And from your autonomy, it’s clear you inherited the same vein