The lyrics you've provided are in Vietnamese. Here’s the English translation while preserving the meaning, tone, and cultural nuances:

---

Hello! Who's this?
Is it ICD? Does my voice sound familiar? Let me give you a hint. I’m the first rap name of Phạm Huy.
Are you 1915?
Bingo! How have you and Huy been lately?
Well, Huy and I are still making music, that’s all.
You’re lucky! Almost had that diss track for MC ILL, but it was almost mine.
I’m really sorry about that.
No worries! You should be more sorry for yourself.
Huh? What’s going on?
Why don’t you continue "Back To Da Game"? I see a lot of people are looking forward to it.
I don’t know.
Have you lost your touch, so you’re not writing anymore?
Come on! My skills aren’t bad.
Then just do it! Where’s the ICD from back in the day? Huh!
Why don’t you diss Tây Nguyên Sound?
I’m friends with members of that group.
You think I’m rambling?
Right, Tùng TeA, those lyrics are super mainstream?
Just recycling lyrics to fool some girls.
"I just wish we could grow old together."
Then me and Ngọc Trinh are also growing old together, huh?
Oh my! That’s crazy! Damn!
Okay! Seems like you’re not into Tùng Trà đá.
So what about Seachain? What do you think of that name?
Huh?
He raps like he just learned yesterday.
What do you mean?
Sparks barely fly, it’s too complicated.
Too complicated, the fuse is blown.
Does Seachain have the syndrome of being "surprised by what he raps"?
Come on! Don’t tease them anymore. Can’t you do anything else?
You want ICD to fade away, right?
Oh right, or maybe you want to diss Datmaniac now?
Crazy! Trouble, don’t push me into that.
Calm down! Let me finish first.
Remember! Datmaniac and Suboi are the pinnacle of hollow lyrics.
Wait a minute!
They helped Rap Việt reach Asia.
Oh come on! That’s not true.
Representing Rap Việt with just a few rhymes aka "basic skills" is a long shot.
MC ILL is the one who has made significant contributions to Rap Việt today.
And those guys just ride the fame while Rap fans think that’s enough for Rap Việt to be good.
You diss MC ILL again, and you’ll be in trouble.
Are you crazy? I respect him.
It seems you haven’t fully understood my point.
Hey! Do you like being called an underrated rapper?
What do you mean?
Huh! Are you naive or just pretending to be dumb?
There are tons of rappers with fame for you to envy.
"Back To Da Game" is also foolish.
Why do you diss with sarcasm and never expose anyone?
Why should I do that?
You need to take advantage of it.
Isn’t there a saying about not climbing the fence when you see the garden?
Just because you’re nice to Rap Việt doesn’t mean they’ll be nice to you when you’re in trouble.
Look at Rich Choi? While he had to run money for the Kancc incident and then texted Kan to apologize.
But you see, as soon as there’s a chance, he disses Kan as if all mistakes are forgotten.
Remember when Rich Choi asked you to leverage MC ILL’s fame while he’s still living off the past dissing Bray?
And you’re trying hard to make decent music instead of dissing others to prove your own talent.
Speaking of Bray and Rich Choi trying to hurt each other.
Beef, right?
These two guys criticize others for not living right while they’re exactly the same.
Why do you say that?
Just eager for fame.
Bray reached out to Kan when he was in drama, asking to meet and all.
But when Kan lost his hot streak, not a single word of concern, that’s just trash.
What if Bray was busy?
Oh please, busy how?
In general, you should move on...
Wait! So you just wanted to suggest I make Back 8?
What do you think about dissing G-fam?
What the hell is wrong with you? G-fam is a big organization. They were once the foundation of Rap Việt.
What does Rap Việt need a foundation for now? Just rich kids jumping in to play rap. What’s different about Phú Nhỏ?
G-fam is stagnant, nothing has improved, yet they want the next generation to worship them.
Contributing in a way of "abandoning the child in the market" and then claiming to be the best. Oh my! Clever, huh?
Or diss