
[intro: Kwanelletary]
Aaaah! Eyo C-bo, (awe),  Is my mike on? (ay! It’s on maaaan!)
Hold up! ,Kwanelletary, tary, tary, (profereca, Cebza reca)
Aaaah! Ey I don’t even smoke, but I feel like smoking (sniffs) Aaaaah!
Hold Up!
[Verse 1: Kwanelletary]

Young black rapper, the P.R boy
Rollin with C-BO, You see that boy
They told me I’m a threat, I’m at your throat
They told me you are hot, I made ya froze
You’re thinking that I’m high? Come kiss my toes
You’re looking for ya mind? I think it’s lost
You’re learning how to rap? Jus change the course
All these gimmicks are fake, I put em all on the boat
Gotta send em to China cuz that’s where they belong
I be spittin that fire, I erupt like a bomb
Try your best to come fight me, I’mma break all your bones
I’m not great into sports, but your head is a ball
So I’mma chop it, kick it, leave it on the floor
Trap it, kick it, really that’s my goal
Trynna- kill me? Hommy I’m a ghost
All these, kiddies, feed em Jungle Oats
You might also like[Verse 2: Da-Cebza]

Well I’m spittin fire when I burn them all
Take it slow when I kill the flow
Ng’repha imihlola, ngiy’sangoma es’phatha amaaa!
Yellow bones mas’hlola
We kill the beat, we make a hit, we grab the mike
K’saba amagwala, senza I party e crèche
S’dedel’ inamba kugcwal’ abantwana!

[Verse 3: Kwanelletary]

Don’t log on to my space, if your space shuttle can’t fly
Don’t book trash on my face, If you know you cannot survive
Hold up! I think my fist is getting angry please
Get ya ears, I think it’s time to eat
I’ve been a beast when I’m merking beats
And I’m the reason why there’s war in middle east!

[Verse 4: Da Cebza]

You mess with us you face your death
Kwanelletary, Cebza tha best
S’hlale sishisa boy, that’s true
Slim-B, Da-Cebza iphelel’ I crew
Baph’ abanombono, they trynna test abana memo
We’re the best, you can see and you know
S’rephela I crowd ifune some more
[Verse 5: Kwanelletary]

I draw your attention cuz I’m your ruler
You work for me, give papa the moola
No audition cuz this music thing is inside my genes and in my medulla
Your chick’s my tool, I think I’mma use her
She said her name was like Nokuthula
She calls you number two, hommy you suck
Your mind is failing, so get a tutor

[Verse 6: Da-Cebza]

You! Claim to be a star, (that’s past tense)
Now it’s my time to shine
Cebza we kill the beat slowly
You’re sick, you think your flow is ill!!!
One verse for the whole hour
Uqubul’ insimbi while knowledge is power
Flow, so dangerous, Floods!

[Verse 7: Kwanelletary]

Cebza said he’s the best
Guess what, I came up with a plan
You don’t exist up in my map
So don’t pretend like you’re my friend
Your songs are still gonna be a mess
Until Kwanelle’s on the verse
And if you claim to be my fan
I hope you’re blowing on my air
[Verse 8: Da-Cebza]

Kwanelletary hommy
Let’s go in hard until they notice
Ng’thanda iy’ngane u babysitter
Umtwana u safe ume nami
Ng’hlale ngithule, angisho nex
The talent speaks for itself
They claim to be players kanti bahlal’ ebhenshini

[Verse 9:Kwanelletary]

You say they claim to be players,but all I see are armatures
You call my girl a groupie, but what about you and your left hand?
You think I’m hating you? I think it’s only jus, your fault
You’re wishing I should fail? Yes I will fail to let my fans down
You think it’s my downfall? But really I’m picking what , I’ve lost
Kwanelle’s here to stay, You hate jus get yourself, da rope
If I say I got the cash, girls say “so you gon’ pay?” No,no!!!
Cuz you know that I’m the man, to rule and profit from, your boss!

[Verse 10: Da-Cebza]

We changing the game, now it’s murder case
We doing it big, now they’re gonna hate
We’re cooking this hit, how it’s gonna taste
Killing them all just to prove we’re the best
S’hlale sishisa sigqoka ama vest
Kugcwala abantwanta, iy’dudla ney’lender
Ngokun’ bulala seng’ commitha isono
Ang’na ma toys, nginidlala ngomqondo
S’repha isiZulu, siSwati siTshonga
Famba limina utoba mu Tshonga
Mfana utobona mmmh!
Nichama nikhoba bo baby baShonga

[Break : Kwanelletary speaks]

If you wanna know, then you gonna know
Who are you my boy? Who’ you looking for?
They told me you’re short, Can’t you see I’m tall?
But you’re gonna know I go by……

[Verse 11: Kwanelletary]

Kwanelletary Mayne
I know I’m dope, don’t tell me that
Grab your girlfriend up with her hand
Die seun van Jones is in die plek
Omdat jou meisie is net n ding
Maklik is Amen in die kerk
Die eete dit ek kan eet, deur jou pragtige vrou gekook
I’mma hit you with a PH-Scale, so you gon’ have a basic head
Meanwhile I’m aiming for your head
Call me Oscar Pistori….yes!!!!
Your blood will flow like Rivers, hey!
Making headlines like Nkandla place
Julius told me I’m going “E”,but I don’t give a double “F”

[Verse 12: Outro: Da-Cebza]


Bulal’ ibhari neskim sayo boy,I multi task
Ama haters awaphel’ e butcher
Bath’ I beef imnandi
Kwanelletary, Da-Cebza
That’s beautiful murder
Beautiful Murder!!!!