**Translated Lyrics:**

I was born in Africa, that's why my skin is black  
My name is Oblongo, which in Swahili means longer than wide. I know every tree in this jungle, every path in my village, every story of its people. "Every story!"...  
Where is my nephew Yoghurtu now, Yoghurtu Nghe, who had to flee the village because of the shortage of rhinoceroses? Yoghurtu Nghe: he was the most handsome and beautiful young man in the tribe. His skin was so dark that in the village they called him "the black." His voice, his voice had the resonance of a lion's roar, the warmth of a panther's growl, the deep roughness of a bison's bellow: singing, he was a beast!  
Where is my nephew Yoghurtu Nghe now, who had to flee the village because of the shortage of rhinoceroses? Perhaps Yoghurtu Nghe inherited the ominous fate of his grandfather: the famous healer Obtuso Nghe. The renowned healer from whom I learned the arts of sorcery and to whom women from all over Africa came to be beautified by enlarging their skulls. Obtuso would talk to them, talk to them, talk to them, and that’s how their heads ended up! Perhaps he inherited the turbulent fate of his aunt: my sister, Ganga Nghe. How beautiful Ganga was! When she danced the harvest dance, the black men howled. Many loved Ganga. On the mahogany trees by the stream, you can still see the carved hearts and their inscriptions:  
Ganga and Kalubu  
Ganga and Mengue  
Ganga and Sir Archibald Bradley  
Ganga and the Obembe Tribe... and well, they were pygmies. Even today, whenever a beautiful maiden enchants all the men of a tribe, the wise elders declare: "She is a true Ganga!"  
Where is my nephew Yoghurtu Nghe now, who had to flee the village because of the shortage of rhinoceroses? If I could find him... If only the infallible sharpness of my senses would serve me... Like that night, which I remember perfectly. I was a hundred steps from Chief Afobutu's hut. In the darkness of the night, my eyes distinguished a human figure stealthily entering the chief's hut... That’s sight!  
I began to approach: my ears caught the whispering of two voices... and gasps... almost imperceptible gasps coming from the chief's hut... That’s hearing!  
I remembered that Chief Afobutu had gone hunting for a week, leaving his wife alone in the hut. And I suspected something strange  
That’s smell!  
I reached the very door of the hut. In the darkness, I felt a warrior's shield and a spear leaning against the wall... and my fingers recognized that this shield and spear were not Chief Afobutu's. They belonged to my nephew... Yoghurtu... Nghe! Then I quietly withdrew, trying not to disturb them. That’s touch!  
Where is my nephew Yoghurtu Nghe now!  
Who had to flee the village; when Chief Afobutu returned from his hunt two days earlier than expected... because of the shortage of rhinoceroses!

(Musical Interlude)

M.M.:  
A letter from Yoghurtu!

Carlos Núñez Cortés:  
Dear Uncle Oblongo:  
After much wandering, I am finally here: in the United States. Upon arrival, my first impressions were digital. They took them with white ink. I’ll tell you it’s not true that all blacks are mistreated in this country: some blacks are mistreated in other countries. Anyway, I am determined to succeed as a musician. By the way, dear uncle, could you teach me a magic word to achieve success and applause?  
A kiss, Yoghurtu Nghe  

You might also like  
M.M. (with percussion by Ernesto Acher):  
Dear nephew Yoghurtu Nghe  
Two points  
I send you these sounds  
Hoping you are well  
Well with a capital B  
New paragraph  
To succeed  
I recommend you use the magic words  
With which immediate success and applause are obtained  
You must say  
Singuí Ungtumi!  
The rest of the Luthiers:  
Uh! Bravo! Bravissimo maestro, bravo! (applause)  
Mblrrr, mblrrr, mblrrr  
M.M.:  
No, no, there’s a confusion, the magic words are just for passing them on to Yoghurtu  
Luthiers:  
Ah, yes...  
M.M.:  
Singuí Ungtumi  
Luthiers: