Who's a monster? I'm a monster
Who's a monster? I'm a monster
Who's a monster? I'm a monster
Never stop cause I does it proper
Now who's a monster? I'm a monster
Who's a monster? I'm a monster
Who's a monster? I'm a monster
Never stop 'cause I does it proper

[Verse 1: Planetary]
It's plain and simple, you could change the tempo
My brain is the missile that drain the issue
Black and white stripe 'cause the game official
No playback so explain the whistle
Back like chiropract, pack a pistol
Plan on point with the poisonous pencil
Lead that seep out, makе y'all freak out
The crowd get loud еvery time I speak out
The time is now, we've got the timin' down
How long you been rhymin'? Ain't find a style
So the words you spit don't deserve the shit
Ain't no hits in your camp like the pharaoh cliques
We barrel shit, poison arrow tips
Darts right through the heart, sinkin' battleships
The tarot bitch said I'm dangerous
Can't a nigga in the game maintain with us, nope
You might also like[Verse 2: Sean Strange]
Hey yo!
Fuck rap, fuck you, I don't care none
I really wanna shoot your head off with a handgun
One time from the mind of a true jerk
Beef with me and I be showing up with Q*bert
Buggin' out, throw a fit in the whole joint
For no reason at all man, I got no point
I'm a monster, I howl at the moon
Come and shoot me with a silver bullet now, you buffoon (Blaaah Blaaah Blaaah Blaaah!)
Show a mic or pull up, creep
I'm goin' at you on my own kid, I don't run deep
One sheet got the information, check it out
I got whatever you need if you should ever doubt
And if you do, I'ma show up at your home with a mini bat and midget flying over on a drone
Nah bro, never front on the guy here
Listen to my verse, it'll let you know why I'm here

[Verse 3: Sentury Status]
Well I'm heavy in the game and I hate all featherweights
I'ma roll up on you, chainsaw, Leatherface
Hit you with a gram of weed, make you levitate
Y'all don't want to see my other side, let me meditate
I admit mane, I've seen better days
Been a slave for the job, need better pay
Now I do it on my own, dedicate
Bang Bang Reign Gang, no better way
Life gave me lemons, I made lemonade
Reach a boiling point 100 centigrade
Not afraid of lite games, arcades
I do it our way, only way I'll partake
Still keep cool like a beer in a bar raid
Shots of Bacardi, whiskey the hard way
No chase, one time, feel the heartache
All the way up, heart rate from the start date
[Verse 4: Outspoken]
Funny when they say they loyal, I see what they do for riches
Wonder why I'm not around, it's 'cause I'm moving and you isn't
I'm a monster born in August, bumpin' Onyx, fuck Hpnotiq
Pour me Hennessy and I will be responsible I promise
If they say to trust 'em, it probably means they can't be trusted
Type of dudes who shake your hand but try to get your kids abducted
You the type to take the stand and show us how a snitch think
A rapist in the club eyein' a skinny bitch's stiff drink

[Verse 5: J Reno]
Y'all about to catch a fade with a blade when I take a little bit off the top, no barbershop
When I'm up on the block, y'all better call the cops, hit up all the locks and barricade the windows (The Monster sneaks)
And he got the Ginsu and he lookin' for something that he can carve it into (uhuh)
I'm a hungry beast and y'all are on the menu
It's bulking season when I come to get you (What?)
Body your whole style when I jot with the pencil
Rap is the same like you came off the stencil (uhuh!)
Unstable mentally with nobody to vent to
Too complex, your mind too simple

[Verse 6: Rob Whiskey]
Know I'm back in the game, mad that it changed
Century Whisk established the Reign
A couple shots in, let me crash in your lane
I'm massive bastards and I'm acting insane
You cats with the catches, I'm crackin' your frame
I'll make it happen captain by cappin' your brain
Do the math, you're trash, you should be askin' for change
We're platinum status, bringin' havoc to gain
[Verse 7: Raw B Snatch]
First off, I don't even need to lie
Real recognize real so you'll recognize I am solid whatever you call it
Never talk about my crimes and my involvement
D's ask me about a homicide, they can't solve it, it's not my problem
But I'm back like your other side
Snatch got a dirty flow like a mudslide
Who's a monster? Everyone on the roster
Never stop 'cause we does it proper
Reel Wolf! We the new Canadian mafia
So much blood! That they can't even mop it up
Put you on the news! If you wanna be popular
Blood on my fangs! They be callin' me Dracula
Rap spectacular, this is a massacre
Try to get away, I'm sending Leatherface after you

[Verse 8: Mystikal Soldiers]
'Toy entre la chunda arrechotraición de admiración
Es lo que sienten cuando yo salto a la acción
Ambición, no hay ficción, calculo con precisión
Estoy despedazando con madera verde ución
El King young, King Kong, y todos Sweeney Todd
Te eleváis con magneto, controla vuestra visión
Es decisión, una lección, provoco tu rendición
Coloco flores muertas a modo de bendición
Mira al carismático, un título académico

Los corazones púrpura para sangrados místicos
Somos el dolor pero también el antibiótico
Soy un subidón de ciclos, llamame anabólico
Un estado crítico que no tiene diagnóstico
Dicen que es esquizo pero yo digo: "Es diabólico"
Mira cómo quemo tu alfabético con ácido clorhídrico
Tus síntomas apáticos no convencen al público

[Chorus]
Who's a monster? I'm a monster
Who's a monster? I'm a monster
Who's a monster? I'm a monster
Never stop cause I does it proper
Now who's a monster? I'm a monster
Who's a monster? I'm a monster
Who's a monster? I'm a monster
Never stop 'cause I does it proper

[Outro: Mystikal Soldiers]
Yo this monster blowup
Rap underground
Este Valencia
It's Spain, conexión USA, Canada, Mystikal Soldiers in the building!
Yeah, legendere, Raw B Snatch!
Yo estas la vaina!
Reel Wolf!
? te folla culo!1