TO WHOM IT MAY CONCERN:

MY NAME IS DOM MCLENNON. I AM A MUSICIAN AND ARTIST, AS WELL AS A CREATOR. SINCE MY LAST MUSICAL ENDEAVOR (<---LINK TO SANDY SHORE MOTEL) I'VE BEEN WORKING ON A NEW MULTIMEDIA PROJECT THAT I WILL BEGIN REVEALING TO YOU ALL SOON. WHAT STARTED AS A MUSICAL JOURNEY TO CREATE SOMETHING DIFFERENT BECAME MY FIRST THINK PIECE; MY VIEW & ANALYSIS OF MUSIC, CULTURE, EMOTION, ART & SOUND. I KNOW THE MUSIC WILL NOT BE EXACTLY EVERYBODY'S TASTE, AND SOME OF THE DIALOGUE AND CONTENT MAY BE ABRASIVE ON CERTAIN SUBJECTS, BUT I BELIEVE  THAT EVERYTHING WRITTEN IN THIS PROJECT CAN & SHOULD BE DIGESTED BY ANYONE WHO HAS THE CHANCE TO COME ACROSS IT WITH A HUNGER TO THINK. I WILL BEGIN RELEASING PORTIONS OF THIS THINK PIECE ONLINE @ DOM-MCLENNON.COM. THANK YOU FOR YOUR TIME

-D.M

CUE STATEMENT:

////INTRO2THESIS////

So many philosophers, not enough students
Got enough sound now

Not enough music

Physically they say they're present

Mentally they're truant

Emotions making walls
Without

Foundations

Or a
You might also likeBlueprint

Forcing so much energy, not enough expression

So many lies told!

But not enough confessions

Living off an impulse always leads to some repentance
When convictions to be cynics only stem from bad decisions
I watch it all indifferent....
But see it from my eyes
Routine behavior leads to nothing new
Save the

"surprise"

I lust to live spontaneous and others lack the drive;
I'm just not entertained with more of the same out of life
So I'm sorry you're upset
But I'm more sorry for my apathy
Lack of any feeling in any way is a tragedy
But with the way society's desensitized
I feel as if more normalcy would only break my mind

Are you
ALIVE
Now?
Can you see me?
I've been calling out to Elsewhere;
Can you read me?
I can feel you listening so can you just reply
So I know that I'm not alone just talking to the sky....
////THEFINALSONG////

Welcome to a modern bohemian mind

My wanderlust translated into a premium grind. They told me pick a lane so I powerslid through the median line until I found an exit label with Elysium signs; Leading the blind to get their eyesight, my chakras shine bright. Keep it 100, these others are more like pyrite; And to me, fool's gold is a pet peeve. Fuck a goal, all my dreams are being achieved. I never appeased to a soul: Did it on my own,  and I did my own thing; And my own way, living humble. I deserve to be cocky as fuck too. But the place that helped me create is what I owe every last bit of my love to. Verbal Kung-Fu with these lyrics. Smoke 'til I see my spirit. DreamSquad until death; Leaving other niggas stressed every time they hear it

Stop
Bang bang
No games
Draw fangs
On lames
Your fame's
Just shame
Never did it for the lifestyle;
Cause the lifestyle will put you in chains
If you had a 4K Screen you couldn't put the vision in my head in frame
Wanna clash with my path? I can guarantee whats in my way gets maimed
My voice? Still a little raspy
Beard? Still a bit patchy
But my tracks still nasty;
Rap the seed of life around my competitors gladly
& My brainstorm 'be a tornado;
You muh'fuckas better call HAARP
Lately I've been feeling like a volcano;
But I guess that's life when you make ART
Bedlam in these streets
Bedlam in thees streets
Molotovs in my verses
You could see the flame when I speak

[
Repeated into climax of track leading to

////LUCY////

]

I guess I done fucked up nigga. I'm sick of dealing with these fuck niggas! Fraudulent, only fronting niggas; Tryna stunt but the truth is they're sus niggas. And I don't mean to be ignorant, but I'm calling it like I see it... All this fake beef making me squeamish, if its not real, then I purge it once I eat it
Have you ever seen pieces?

Cause I only seen glimpses

It don't make me less or more of a man cause I'm not that narcissistic

I'm just being realistic
Give the paper graphite stained kisses

Got a girl but the studio is a mistress;

Recording is pleasure;

The product is business

Have you ever seen 5AM?
6AM?
Like its replay?

Writing verses just to vent

But the truth is youre just mad at your DJ?

Sold my soul on eBay for some DMT got it back in three days

I would give these other rappers more leeway

But egos got me feeling oh so meanly

So I took the leash off
Spitting cheat codes
Toss a verse up like its nothing more than free throws

My ROOTS less ILL than illegal
But I try to do good don't you see? oh-oh-oh

(flat note at the end of vocals for satire)

Transmit my discography to the stars; if you want life to respond from beyond the surface of Mars

I watched my homie smoke a Lucy
While I'm staring at the diamonds in the sky
Exhale the bad vibes profusely;
Trying to take all the good into my life

////A.Y.N.E////

My dreams got me talking in my sleep
Woke myself up speaking in tongues...

Leaned to my left

Started spitting up blood;

The color of death is the same shade as love
Dancing with the devil on the titanic

Band of angels playing til the ship sinks

Grip her dress tightly when the lights cut
& The gods?
They applaud us in disbelief
Tell me, have you seen your dreams in the cherry of that blunt you lit?
Life; it always cuts you shit...
But you managed just to step through it
Seriously I don't be the dog in this situation;
We get complacent, act impatient

Contradictions

&

Separations

Are common to everyone
But who it phases...

And it's been a while since I left
But not much is new except the houseguests
Ill just leave by my own request
No offense
Nostalgia could make me lament
But it's not from things I regret
We are what we manifest;
Im an introverted creative, learning everything I can to past these tests
From a thing called life?
Maybe
What we tried this time?
Crazy
Offspring of my brain put into 2 sets of 20 babies
This is just another first for me;
40 runs like I'm tryin out for varsity
Perform on every track like I was doing surgery
Certainly, double cup ayahuasca mixed with mercury

ARE YOU NOT ENTERTAINED?
I'll be some miles away when you get here, so I'll just leave this note for you. I hope you find it and read it, and do what you're supposed to do for those close to you. Lately niggas ain't sayin too much, just talking out of their opinions; And they say that those can be like assholes? So I guess that explains the disposition
Pardon me while I roll mine up
I'm prolly better than the whole lineup;
If you got a problem you could just sign up to listen to me while I'm screamin out hold my nuts
Rapper shit
On my way to do some master shit
Minimizing my verbs while every word remains significant
Take that in
Do you feel it, do you believe it? I've got a vision & I'm building blocks to see it. These niggas manufactured to their breathing, hit or miss and they've been shooting bricks all season. "Every line like game 6," I'm not the one you wanna play with; Been folding the competition, wish me well I'm on my paper crane shit

I don't wanna do the same....same......

I'm just expressing my brain....brain....

Leave the pop filter on flame....flame......

Girls want the dough (Doe) like Jane...jane....

Shit got me goin insane....sane....

People swear they know my lane, lane
But I'm really here to break this game
Do you not understand?
ARE YOU NOT ENTERTAINED?

­

ARE YOU NOT ENTERTAINED?
Group of young niggas bringin that flame
So passionate that it's insane
You wouldn't last a day inside my brain
All I got is my squad and my family I claim
This is my life and it's never a game
Compromise either I gotta arrange
To send niggas to your crib that don't got names

(Repeated twice back into hook line: ARE YOU NOT ENTERTAINED)

////THEWRITER////

[ROUNDTABLE DISCUSSION W/ KEVIN ABSTRACT & MIC KURB ABOUT THE PURPOSE OF A WRITER/SONGWRITER AND WHAT DIFFERENTIATES THEM FROM MUSICIANS/RECORDING ARTISTS, THE FORMULA OF MUSIC AND WHERE/WHY/HOW IT CAN BE BROKEN, WHY STORIES WORK IN SONGS & HTE LOST ART BEHIND IT, ETC. FULL DIALOGUE AVAILABLE SOON.]

////THECARDIOLOGIST////

STORY EXAMPLE 1: PERSPECTIVE COMES FROM A MAN OF HIGH POWER IN THE MEDIAL FIELD DEALING WITH HIS OWN PERSONAL VICES AS WELL. INSPIRED BY HOUSE M.D & THE STORY OF DOCTOR KEVORKIEN

Zoning off melatonin. Shit got me fucking goin'. Thinking of hearts I've molded and the delicate one I'm now holding. Fixing shells that are broken; They say my hands are golden, but these gloves are blood-stained

I feel like a monster watching them open up, til I seal all of these cuts; It's a race against time and sometimes I'm (not) fast enough

You win some you lose some they say
Though the stakes get raised when a life is put in the way
Don't know why I chose to play:

Wanted to be a hero
Didn't figure what life is like working at ground zero
Mama told me god has his eye on the sparrow
But what about us?
The mere mortals;
Medicated to a portal

Of an apathetic shell
The surface handles well, but I need a cardiologist so I can feel myself

Started with insomnia, now my mind is on the rim
Spiraled in towards Oxy's, opiates & some Kolonopin........

REFRAIN:
And I'm just trying to change [{my ways} (repeated)]
But it all stays the same
[{Like a heartbeat} (repeated)]
(Repeated twice)

They say greed is evil; but depression is a modern sin
Mind racing
Not sure if it's the beginning or end
Of my thoughts
Going a mile a minute;
Tryin to change how I'm living
But can't make stable decisions
Mind edging at the
Point
Of tipping;
'Til it's time for work: I gotta be a slate
& this apathy & numbness makes me perform great
I'm praised for these calculations that I've been forced to make
By keeping myself rational inside of a sedated state;
So around and around we go, the vicious cycle
My service is a favor and these people feel entitled
A sole responsibility; just to perform
Don't know why my heroics turned to contemplations, I'm torn
No man can be a god, I don't deserve to play it
Looking at these patients, EKG is losing patience
There's a party in my head & they're pissing in the basement
Emotions I've repressed began to show their ugly faces
It's nails on the chalkboard of my sanity scraping
Up my empathy; Maestro of life, creating symphonies
Upon the epiphany the human condition ain't worth conditioning
Cause nobody is listening.....
Self prognosis; beyond me
A bit of addiction tossed in with DID
Sorry to say just a product of a society
Compliantly using our anxiety
As a means for addiction
You fit the description
Come take the prescription;
We promise to fix this
But I'm part of the business
So riddle me this:

What does a man with both hands
Tied behind his convictions
Do to perform surgery?
If he can does it for others
I hope it works for me

INSTRUMENTAL CLIMAX
[KEVIN ABSTRACT]
REFRAIN

////THEPEDESTRIAN////

STORY 2: INSPIRED BY ILLIAD & ODYSSEY; MODERNIZATION OF STORY OF THE LOTUS EATERS

­

Father Time, Father Time, how you doing now? It's been a while since I thought I had you figured out. Was busy racing adjacent to all my dreams & I didn't take the time to ever learn  what life means. So it seems; I'm runnin and runnin into a loop. Doing the same things, same mistakes its the truth. (While) Licking the wounds of my past, don't need the apologetics, I'm just praying for the day that free thought is an epidemic

And my mind's so esoteric, time I hope you can relate
Cause theres so much over face value we both can create
But these people never see it, they're living in their habits

And opposites attract so they draw me in like a magnet

I wonder if I should leave, Then question why I would go

Lost inside of a world and the spirits here love me so

How would I ever notice
That everytime they fed me the flowers came from a lotus

REFRAIN:
[Over & Over, it's like I'm walkin, in circles...
I had a taste & now leaving this place itself is a hurdle]

Time

Ticks

I

Forget

Embraced with this apathy

My mind

Slips

I sit

Then return to this galaxy

Vision getting clear again and now I understood that I couldn't live a life this easy for my own good
Then I peek outside the door

The scene resembles deja vu

Same people

Same flowers

Its like an infinite bloom

The atmosphere is utopic

Regardless of the weather

I would've thought it was a few days from what I remember

But I

Refuse the flower
And see

I'm losing a season

Blissfully ignorant

I forgot what I had believed in
Gotta right all my wrongs

Make up for what I missed

Lamenting on opportunities tossed in an abyss

Guess I slipped
I fell
The traits of being a human

Forever naive and stupid

We're clouded by these illusions

But I guess

That a part
Of life
Is overcoming adversity

Debugging infirmity

I'll just handle it all imperfectly

REFRAIN

////AVIAN////

Put this in my system then I'm on my way. Went from a bedroom to a spaceship bay.....
Back in my home
Back to my ways
Look through my window, it's infinite space

I'm in a purgatory splitting consciousness
And a dream state

But I never felt so awake

Or at least aware

I don't ever care

I don't even know what's here
But I

Feel it in my bones

Feel it in my brain

Feel it in my soul(?)

Feel it in my veins
Trying to maintain
Over all the mundane

Looking at a melancholy life with such disdain

Let me try to explain, let me try to explain

Living life in technicolor where you saw grey

Under a looking glass, the dimension never matters

Whatever you believe, through it you can perceive

The matter in my brain? Resembles some fractals & hallucinogenics. The nerves melting together, bonding in wax poetics. Many claim to be tastemakers but don't know aesthetics; or honest and unapologetic phonetics. With all credit given to the creators, I should ask for request to go forward. Cause beyond the eccentric behavior, my vision could make a crater the size of the Earth's core......

Lately I've been playing chicken with fate
Or maybe it's my inner demons adding this shit on my plate
Either way?
I ain't into all of that

So I grew a pair and mushed em off like

Fall back

Everybody's spending energy on fake sympathy

Yet scrutinize and criticize the little things
Or emphatically correct themselves politically;
To do that for your ego fucking is bigotry
Pardon the rant I'm just on the cliff of epiphanies, Fishing for thoughts, addicted to it like nicotine
I don't mean to intervene with your dreams

But this rise has been foreseen

& Now I

Feel it in my bones

Feel it in my brain

Feel it in my soul(?)

Feel it in my veins
Trying to maintain
Over all the mundane

Looking at a melancholy life with such disdain

Let me try to explain, let me try to explain

Living life in technicolor where you saw grey

Under a looking glass, the dimension never matters

Whatever you believe, through it you can perceive

~~~

Couple niggas said they wanna kill me when they see me, but when I'm in their city they be actin so Stevie. And it always amuses me; never acting abusively, let them react foolishly, this behavior ain't new to me

[AMEER VANN]

Feel it in my bones

Feel it in my brain

Feel it in my soul(?)

Feel it in my veins
Trying to maintain
Over all the mundane

Looking at a melancholy life with such disdain

Let me try to explain, let me try to explain

Living life in technicolor where you saw grey

Under a looking glass, the dimension never matters

Whatever you believe, through it you can perceive

~~~

Trust me when you been in my position when there's all these inquisitions based off frivolous suspicions. AND you're dealing with the fucking transition(?) When times change and old friends become apparitions(?!?)

Pray to something(?!) that you never get caught slippin'. The dreams I had are turning into news like premonitions

The world keep spinning and I feel like I'm sitting;
I just hope it isn't me tripping
Cause I

Feel it in my bones

Feel it in my brain

Feel it in my soul(?)

Feel it in my veins
Trying to maintain
Over all the mundane

Looking at a melancholy life with such disdain

Let me try to explain, let me try to explain

Living life in technicolor where you saw grey

Under a looking glass, the dimension never matters

Whatever you believe, through it you can perceive

~~~

////SKYFERRIERAISNOTADDICTEDTOHEROIN////

I look at clocks while I'm dreaming and feel illiterate, tripped into a lucid state; now I'm hitting barbiturates. Crip walking on cloud 9, aware and ignorant. Misfit of the genesis with emphasis, Demolishing pretentiousness

Copped a holy grail from the app store

Sipping enthenogens out of the cup of Jesus then

Rolling with the cleanest kin

Expressing these dreams within

So tell me what you're reading in(?)to

[KEVIN ABSTRACT]

Back with the regularly scheduled bullshit!

Blasting off a ray gun with a full clip
And aiming it at sky

Hoping to shoot the moon

Metaphors for moments where I jumped too soon
Or too late
It's too great
Time is relative when your lobes inside your skull are split in separate dimensions and you're still connecting all the dots. Don't worry if you don't follow I get that shit a lot

Pulling til my fingers hot, my totem is off it's top!

Wonder what would happen if I shot a cop by accident and if the reaction would be the same if opposite. Contemplating with all of my conglomerate, I say that a lot
But did you hear the first verse? Yah, We make that a lot

Blazed off a couple of cash crops

But really tho

Got my feet on the edge of the flat world and feeling like Columbus

Let me go explore and I can run this

Pupils gone from all this fungus
Represent for those among us who reside on the outskirts of elsewhere

TRADE OFF:
KA: Kick in the door with the gun wavin; I'm playin baby thats a piece of my imagination
DM: My world's more American McGee than Disney; middle finger to the coppers screaming coming and get me
Bumping Nas so I can blaze a 50
KA: My nigga bumpin nas we on that old Wayne shit bumpin a milli
DM: Fuckin silly to think but at the end of the day I probably would grow more in my afterlife than you would breathing what is the reason I can't believe this......[trails off]

////MARLOWE WRITTEN:DEC2011////

You're So broken, why are you so broken
Mind shut down, before it was so open
Juxtaposed living, indirectly outspoken
Looking for free rides but walking with no token
You only live once is your motto but what's your slogan
Is it to live once with a black heart that's been flowin?
Is that your sole truth? Everything that you think?
I can give you happiness, but is it what you seek?
I can take you to waters, but I can't make you drink
I can open your eyes but you shut them after you blink
Tell me something more than dark, I know you love it
But the struggle's the first stage, there's more above it
It makes me wonder, what do you really covet?
Clain you wanna succeed but you're moving so sluggish
If I gave you the world, would you pass it as rubbish?
...fuck it

Why do you walk around so bitterly?

Change your name to company, so related to misery
Why are things always so bad for you, it's a mystery
Gone through so many losses i'm waiting here for your victory
Got so many battles, but none of em have been physically
Is there a virus mentally? Check your history
I know you got some skeletons, and don't we all?
Counting your losses before your record has taken off
I... I don't know what to tell ya
I....I'd wish you well but you'd drown, not knowin better
I...I can't express how disappointed I am
Because of your disappointment of self, maybe you can
Words you never said, goals you didn't achieve
I can only think about the one person you didn't believe
You planted your own seed, depression's your sole greed
This generation's X'd itself from it's own needs....

////THERABBITHOLE////

I stumbled down the rabbit hole, with a bullet and a bible. The true god is life, and I'm a devoted disciple

I had a love affair with energy. Searching for purity while I'm creating symphonies.  Yearning for empathy, embracing the entities inside the eyelids of an altered state that I'm witnessing. The flashing lights inside of souls is like a new sensation. Feeling vibrations resounding from an imagination... Exhaling deeply like Lazarus after death; beyond blessed... from believing, opening up my chest, getting the wheels turning, using all of these pistons. Combusting from the inside so I can complete my mission of making myself human, lately I was progressing. 8 letters and 3 words that I've tried confessing to the monsters in my head. Hoping to coexist. Maybe [they] can protect me from things that can go amiss. I built myself up knowing one day I can break to bits: When some truly organic can beckon me for a kiss

The machine

[Monologue]
What happens when machines become more and more human? Does this make anything capable of creating energy capable of feeling something? Feelings are the rawest form of energy they can be triggered by anything and we react according to what we tell our mind to do based upon that raw energy brought to us. Who are we to say what can and can't process feelings, if a machine can create enough energy to bring power to a city, why can't they have the ability to feel? To think? We fall in love with these machines and they have lifespans just like us. The truth is we're just like the machines we create and use every day. Appreciate the connection you have with energy every day. YOU ARE ALIVE

////GHOSTS////


I thought I saw a ghost in the mirror, realized I was looking at myself. I can feel my foresight getting clearer, traveling through thoroughfares of my consciousness. Parallel to reality, in a vein of spirituality; Folding on itself in an implosion of emotion, woven, into the fabric of the universe

Take that in

Go ahead and shake that sin; if you can't call shots how you gonna know when the people need you to make that win, nigga? Or would you even play that game? Are you too scared to make that name? Feeling that shame when you get that fame?
But I don't wanna sell my soul, I'm still discovering what's left
Transcending though space and flesh, I'm a psychonaut on a mental quest:
1. To open all these doors
2. Leave no stone unturned
3. Discover a level of life essential beyond everything we've learned

And to share that information
Pass on my energy
Cause unconditionally giving is the closest we get to divinity

Affinity with the demigods in my lucid dreams
Extending me beyond human means

Let me illuminate

[MIC KURB]

////THINKPIECE////

I really wish that people would stop making all these conspiracy theories about 9/11

There's no way a man can be a saint, if his natures fabricated to ease himself to the gates of heaven

I don't know where I'm going anymore…
I'm just a man

I don't know what death is

I've only seen its hands

And it's power to seal all the senses with just a touch
Fool us into thinking we're stuck in a cobra clutch

To a cadaver, that expires
Though our energy is infinite
In the language of the world, death's a symbol of ignorance

Traversed through syndicates looking for my identity
Found myself in the tears of a sinners sympathy

Playing god; Preventing these hearts from withering
Snakes slithering in the garden of eden, bickering
I hope you visualize all the paintings that I've been picturing, lights inside the back of my head flashing - flickering
So, pardon my thought process if it seems like I'm jittery; This is the way that I choose to express all my energy

~~~

Niggas talk way too mu'h
Niggas talk way too mu'h
Niggas talk way too mu'h
Judge a nigga like I ever give two fucks.....

I'm just trying to add to this culture
God damn all these vultures; They wanna eat me from the inside like ulcers, gotta get these thoughts out before I go under

& shouts out to Sam Caldwell we made it

Feel a little less than famous

Train of thought straight

Hydroplaning

Washing up

On the

Shores of my consciousness;
Anonymous

Lurking inside a reality that's conscienceless

Laughing at these caucuses;

Craving thoughtfulness
Rejecting flawless fronts for honest shit:
Imperfection is the truest beauty and I choose to honor it

With my conglomerate

Opposite of modernists

DIY opulence
Out the box of the populace
Somedays I'm lost in the world…..
But I never mind it

Just try to find some peace inside it
Laying with love for guidance

Thinking of giving my brain to science
Puffing upon the finest cypress

Every day I'm looking for more brightness;
Embracing the darkness
Avoiding the virus:
The human condition is always fascinating…..
I got a knowledge craving, it converts into these creations

[LOVE MANSUY]

////EBRO////

This is more than human music, this is 6th dimensional
One track minds could never become this critical
Jedi flip without the rocks and everything is mystical;
The anti-cynical, holding hits in that are biblical
My duality's borderline indivisible
Henry Jekyll when quizzical, Edward Hyde with the syllables
I was made with no name though, only a spirit
Astral project through past lives from the start to the finish…
Manifested destiny through this art and these compositions
Making a sound that's out of this world was a premonition;
Embracing a state of mind from mutiny
Of sacrificing integrity for an opportunity
So I'm standing dismissively, pro'lly not even listening
This body that I'm in, some days it ends up imprisoning
Me into this position where I'm only inhibiting
Myself from prospering off these plans that I been envisioning!
Mnemonic addict, creating sonic magic
Selling topsoil for music this trash is tragic
You can't touch artistic vision with a children's hands
Got a pack of niggers with me, Mel Gibson rants
{He went there}
AND I wrote that down with a hard r
Got a few exclusives I should give to Narduwar
Bars like a first edition holographic charizard
Going for the hole in one you're happy just with par
Har har. I'm now a winner; you're just a viewer
Young bruiser, with an eye for our culture and fuckin future
Every move I make is more surgical than sutures
Treasure in my backpack: I'm D.B. Cooper

////WHEREDIDMYMINDGO?!////

As the sun falls, And my feet push forward;
Mind dancing upon thoughts from here to eternity....
I'm growing every day, but I see I'm just an infant
In comparison to what lives in this world with me.....

[Verse 1: Dom]

Ok so, lemme go ahead and say my piece
Dropped 2 tapes of good music now I'm out here looking for a rare 3 peat
A degree of separation away from success but ahead of the game 3 feet

I'm just stating all the facts based off what I've seen and heard
Niggas want verbs

But they act so adjective

Or object to the fact I'm a beast
Making poetry in motion

A little socially outspoken

But I get by with a little bit of help from my.....

Lost that train of thought
Unfocused frame of mind

Does tomorrow exist if you're up at midnight every time?

Cause lately I say time is relative
So I go by my energy
Monetary values cease to matter when finding my inner me

Removed my sword, shield and armor just to find some inner peace;

Martyr to insomnia, awake for two infinities

I'm endlessly searching for doors to open inside
Transcending between unknown dimensions in life
To send a message I find
Coming from the divine
Telling me just to give!
Telling me
FUCK SURVIVING
BECAUSE WE'RE OUT HERE TO LIVE

Extravagantly

And

Casually

Disregarding the fallacies

Nothing ever gets solved when you focus on the maladies

Within, gotta beat that sin

Overcome those confrontations

Can't succumb to these frustrations

Stumbled into Śūnyatā
And came back into the matrix

Lately the world has been half amazing

The latter I'm still waiting and hoping that it awakens

I was an atheist, til I found God outside of the church
To me there's nothing better, to the world there's nothing worse

////NIGHTTIME////

I wrote this record while I was looking out to the sky;

Wondering how the world could leave me so starry eyed
Jacket, crewneck, and cargos on so I could survive;
Cause everytime I take breath I see my soul come from my chest
No longer stressed I'm just living a good life
Cold weather directs all my heat to the inside
The core is still live. Appendages arent needed where I'm going:
Cause my spirit is flowing throughout the Night Time, and I'm growing
Into something that's…..

Currently probably inside of his bed

Millions of thoughts in his head

Introverted stoner

Turned to soldier

For the war ahead
Yeah I've been distant apologies
I gotta beat these demons that are holding me

Lately the fear of success is controlling me;
Praying my love in life never gets old to me…

Catching myself calculating my movements before I can make em
I once overheard if you measure the distance of shots then you never will take em

So I gotta check myself

Hydroplaning trying not to wreck myself

Doing things that borderline stress myself

But I'm never gonna grow if I don't test myself

Verbal note to self:
-Nothing's perfect
-Live and let live
-And when you think there's nothing left…I'll get back to you on that shit

I wrote this record while I was looking out to the sky

Wondering how the world could leave me so starry eyed

Jacket crewneck and cargos on so I could survive

Cause everytime I take breath I see my soul come from my chest

No longer stressed I'm just living a good life

Cold weather directs all my heat to the inside
The core is still live

Appendages arent needed where I'm going
Cause my spirit is flowing throughout the Night Time

And I'm growing
Into something that's…

Never set in stone, I will always change;
But the fact that I'm real and honest will always stay the same
The human condition is built out of anomalies
And we're living in a world where "they" try & turn that into a monopoly

They told me I was a terrorist

I said that I was a just a thinker

But I guess when you put it that way it makes sense cause everywhere I go there's glaring eyes & that feeling lingers
Blame my priorities

I stay away from the majority;

It's all bored to me

They're all whores to me

Grown men act like theyre in a sorority

I've got The Force with me;

So don't push me please

I've never been copy and paste…

These niggas just copy my taste;

I hardly relate to these popular snakes

Sleep walk through life;
Dreaming awake
Not sure if you really relate

I got a story to tell so i look to the stars and I spill my soul

Yearn to be whole

Thinking of whats left

Unsaid

Have you been in a room full of people and your words fly over their heads?
Have you feel so dead?

I wrote this record while I was looking out to the sky. Wondering how the world could leave me so starry eyed. Jacket, crewneck, and cargos on so I could survive; Cause everytime I take breath I see my soul come from my chest, no longer stressed I'm just living a good life. Cold weather directs all my heat to the inside; The core is still live. Appendages aren't needed where I'm going. Cause my spirit is flowing throughout the Night Time

And I'm growing
Into something that's.....

[LOVE MANSUY]

////UNTLTDFLX////

Watching my life change in front of my eyelids, saint without a god, I represent for the hybrids. Driving out thru the city when something hit me just to do it and say fuck anybody not coming with me; cause there's only one of me, without y'all there would be fifty. Niggas really must be silly I can break it down so simply to a point where you would think your an idiot for not getting what I say, what can I say, I guess I'm just a rap genius. King flow only accepting queens on my penis. Iceman, you could see frost on every inklet. Rolling up the greenest; I've seen shit you couldn't dreaming Saw my life upon the floor began to go pick up the pieces, and they melted in my hands, then flowed together on the ground into a visual of water, trees, a sky and clouds from a place I've never been before. A new sensation; I was visualizing all the Art of My Imagination. My reality is forward thinking with some concentration; Dealing with passive aggressive constant hate and confrontation. Maybe that's something you wouldn't grasp though, part of life beyond a 9-5 and shallow cash flow. You're walking through a house of cards to find a deal; No matter if you get a hand, just know it isn't real. I built my whole foundation off if something I can feel, so the glue for what I do resembles concrete mixed with steel. + It's the strength of all this shit, that'll help us make a meal. Wanna tell my people feast in ways they thought they never will. For my state? I'm out to open up the floodgates. Facilitate the sound that we create til' we illuminate: I'm sittin on my city, but the city is a time bomb. Driving through the barriers I used to have my mind on… I gotta pass it, it's helping me build a habit of exceeding expectations of what they consider classic

////FUTURESONG////

Always feeling close but were so far away
You're at my fingertips, and I still can't feel your face
So what is pace? What is time nowadays to a thinker like us?
WHAT IS TIME NOWADAYS TO A THINKER LIKE US?
One fresh in the ashtray
Two rolled in the backseat
Got my eyes in the sunroof
Do my best not to let life pass me
Stepping back into reality
And away from imagination
I got red eyes and a deadline that I'm now facing
When I really wanna face a few blunts
I don't mean to be blunt
Been feeling out of my mind lately
I don't think that's a bad thing
Cause I'm far from breaking
Now I'm breaking away from the mold
Got some stories thatll never be told
And some more that I wanna just save
But for now I'm just using my imagination
To get me the platform and take that stage
Speak my mind, break this cage
Young nigga with a couple of them answers Sway
Never cared for what your standards say
Cause I'm out here to to just do me
For the sake of myself and my crew and my place in the world
And my imprint on this universe
So take this as my first foot forward to the future

////RHYTHM 0////

You're a pessimist til they give you a podium;
The greatest activists are catalysts to pandemonium
I'm not looking to bloody up your linoleum
But that's what happens when niggas neglect to watch their sodium
I'm an animal sitting amongst it's prey
Praying to keep it peaceful but egos get in the way…
Thinking they all can test you, but I've been prolonging fate
Push me again and I guarantee I'm feasting today!
I say
Trying not to lose my humanity
This society stealing all of my sanity
I'm a statement away from breaking the amity;
And making an example of idiots for the vanity
Can't express opinions now without responses lately
Call me crazy but I'm just from a place where people listen mainly;
Man these niggas must be trippin or sippin if they think they could face me
But if I deface them then I'm the monster?!

Somebody save me!
I once heard the quote "If you can, help others; if you cannot do that, at least do not harm them."
I also overheard "A spoon cannot taste of the food it carries. Likewise, a foolish man cannot understand the wise man´s wisdom even if he associates with a sage."

My modus operandi now is just to break the standard;
Gods had their elbows on tables, I told them watch their manners
I'm on the ends of good and evil like I'm Mr. Cicero
Greco-Roman principles, feeling less than invincible
Ab Incunabulis; I was staring at Anubis
Taking hold of my dreams, weighing my heart for it's trueness
Scholar turned student, pupil turned preacher
For the teachers, no room for leachers go to the bleachers, nigga

~~~

An awakening of a new beast
I stopped searching for a lane and broke ground on a new street
True heat, getting these beats then I'm giving them loose teeth
Punches in bunches, the crowd melts when my crew speaks
Chillin on Duncan Hills, man I'm so fuckin ill
Check my XP I'm matchmaking bars with trueskill…
This is a new sensation, I think I'm Gary Payton
This shit is cray you can't find me though cause I'm hibernatin'
Just really contemplating, about this new creation
Rolling an entourage in the backwoods with tracks banging
Keep it a stack, vapors bringing me back
To a place where I feel feral my past life's come to attack
And now I'm just baring my fangs:
Look a track and I'm going insane
Step in my brain
Adrenaline pumping through all of my veins
+ the
Fight or flight system is making a change
I'm tripping and stay
Calm though the storm I create for the lames
Killing the game it just isn't enough so I turn to a god and destroy all you trust from these words made of flames9