
Track 1. “Infinite Jest”

In bed, I’m the professional type
After sex I try to keep it romantic
I’m not the type of guy to just hand himself
To anyone
“We’re like stardust, so trapped in our canvases”
You slap my head with a Brooklinen pillow
“Shut up; do you want Thai or Indian?”
I want Indian

I light a cigarette after the naan comes
We eat in bed like we’re back in college
I get sauce all over your comforter
You imply it’s fine
On your iPad something big is happening
We’re in a bevy of еternal stimuli
Just like “Infinite Jеst” in ’96 predicted
But it’s mine

I was never the type to leave books
Without learning to unwind people
All our stories are like gossamer projections
Of ourselves
I was never the type to lead books
Around my bed just to show other people
All our classics are elite projections
Of the mind
After sex, it’s the same ol’ drama
“Do you want to watch ‘The Crown’ or something?”
I always prefer shots of espresso
After head
“I think love is a depth of understanding”
You pull my pants down and say “Look, undies!”
The elites have produced a strange culture
It’s their bed

“I like to go for walks when I can”
“I love walks; what about hiking, ya do that too?”
“No,” I mumble, shaking my head
“But I used to”
“So much is happenin’ just under the surface
Of the big picture, which is abomin-absymal!”
At the park you talk about the New World Order
While I listen

Words are primarily a type of barter
A trancelike constellation of underlying ardors
Suggesting shared unities inside of
Our pop culture
If I can moonlight as plainsong melodies
Tuned to the chord of Fyodor
While intoning in Murakami’s harmonics
We should End Times
For where could jest go
Circling Shakespeare into the drain
Of the Apocalypse?
For what’s after music
Circling Heaven into the brains
Of the monotonous?

The reason I didn’t text is simple
I’m a specific person with specific needs
Besides, you didn’t text me back first
“Either”
Sorry I left you two messages
I double-texted not out of desperation
I just wanted to see if you were really
Not there

I was never the type to follow others
Without analyzing what I was loomin’ after
What was it about their ever after
That divined me?
I was never the type to plead “ignorance”
While stuffin’ my whims into glass cases
“Ha, look how many loom behind me
Don’t remember”

After sex, it’s infinite laughter
Put ’er up, it’s infinite jest
Where can Diogenes go from here
But the Apocalypse?
Track 2. “Alcohol”

“Red, like the color of the bars we once drank to?”
Bars, what bars?
“Remember, dear; the cabins you’d cruise?”
You mean with neon-red lights, and a martini night vibe
And tall ferns next to statues
Of little Buddha?
Where the reverb was fuzz, and the mojitos were made well
And the bass never died
Over Bose speakers?
Either you’re drunk or I’m sober (“What?”)
I said either you’re drunk or I am sober

(“Drink, drink, drink, drink
Drink, drink, drink, drink…”)

“Drink with me, sex
I want a toast to the good life!”
We’re like angels who party brat-naked
And the youth will go on to feel it
Because our beat drops so dramatic
And our drama vibes so organic
Images cut out of “Vogue” magazine
I want Warhol to direct the lyrics
Drag Ellington out here to hear it!
But first cut his rag through Scrillex
“Queer is the world through red and black crinkles
Paint a collage of New Jazz sprinkles…”

(“Drink, drink, drink, drink
Drink, drink, drink, drink…”)

“That’s the past now, here’s what’s different—”
Yeah? Lay it on me
“This time our bar’s a ‘be-yourself’ establishment”
You mean red and white’s in charge?
“Be yourself—just think different”?
Old tempers flarin’ out, of new disappointments?
Because weirdness is back, and the kids are composed well
And “Woman is God” is a true statement?
Either you’re a scientist or I’m over (“What?”)
I said either you’re a scientist or I am over

(“Drink, drink, drink, drink
Drink, drink, drink, drink…”)

“Drink with me, bestie
You’re like ‘toast to the new life!’”
Spinner of high sins of sanctimony
And the youth’ll go on to feel it
If your beat drops stay this dramatic?
And your chaos shimmer this organic?
Images cut out of “Spin” magazine
I want prints of girls you never hearda
Drag a viral star out to make fun of
But first send ’em through summa your sermons
“Queer is the world through Polaroid crinkles
Paint a collage of Holier-Than-Thou sprinkles…”

(“Drink, drink, drink, drink
Drink, drink, drink, drink…”)

Loom in the night of our postmodern dystopia
Pay bankers to sleep well
Vicarious stimuli for a vicarious utopia
But we can’t turn wars
Into Lana Del Rey’s first single?
Loot in the night of our postmodern beatopia
Pay baddies to dream well
Vicarious stimuli for a vicarious utopia
But we can’t turn wars
Into Lana Del Rey’s first single?

(“Drink, drink, drink, drink
Drink, drink, drink, drink…”)

“Holier than thou? What, like you tryin’ to be Jesus?”
(Drink, don’t think!)
“Sex? Wrong about that, we don’t have any”
Lather your enemies in dank memes and alcohol
Simulate your steam
Enhanced by Adderall
Your bitterness never dries, I climax all the time
Slip your fingers on me like crystals
Like tickles overlayin’ tickles (mmph)
Either you’re Biblical now or I’m over (“What?”)
I said either you Biblical now or I’m over, bitch

(“Drink, drink, drink, drink
Drink, drink, drink, drink…”)

“Drink with me, sleazies
I want a toast from the century!”
I’m like a prophet who speaks eazy to sheeple
And my mind is for chasin’ the steeple
Where the beat drops this dramatic
And my ardor vibes this organic?
Images out of clipped 2Pac posters
“Put some books on the shelves out here, baby!”
But first color them with dedication
“Queer is the world of red and black crinkles
Paint a collage of End Times sprinkles”

(“Drink, drink, drink, drink
Drink, drink, drink, drink…”)

Paint a collage of New Jazz sprinkles
(Where the beat drops this dramatic
And my dramas so true organic…)

[Jazz outro]

Track 3. “Have the Times Ended Yet?”

You tried to speak truth, now everyone hates you
But what happened?
You’s a good person

You got tempers a-flarin’; fourth estates blarin’
The future sees me starin’, music everywhere
You got busted rage screamin’
Deep thinkers dreamin’
Reputation management is like the new healthcare
I’m just a regular bloke who came out all ’90s
Not the ‘60s; it’s my specificity really
Hotness is my story
Handsomeness my glory
Are we the stupidest to ever exist?

Tell me—have the times ended yet?
(Hoardin’ all the glory, that’s the human story)
Tell me—have the times ended yet?
(Boom chica wow wow, that too prolly)
Blue, pink, orange in the head
Christ is comin’ back
For the light spectrum (woah)
Tell me—does postmodernity get it yet?

You tried to speak truth, they can all see that
So what exactly happened?
You’re like a lovable cat

You got tempers a-flarin’, I mean it’s truly apparent
Do you write the “first draft of history” or don’t you?
Have you sorta noticed, story after story
In the 21st century, all sort of converging?
“Come out, come out, wherever you are!”
You’re in the Second Testament
I’m sure it don’t mean nothin’
I know I made misjudgments but I’ll try to state persistent
A proseline is like a sum constitution
Be dynamic, to stay consistent

Tell me—have the times ended yet?
(Hoardin’ all the stories, that the human mori?)
Tell me—have the times ended yet?
(Boom chica wow wow, that too prolly!)
Blue, pink, orange in the head
Christ is comin’ back
For the light spectrum? (Woah)
Tell me—does postmodernity get it yet?

They’ll say I hate women, they’ll say I hate men
They’ll say I hate the pretty
Or that I don’t like stupid
They’ll say I been drinkin’ and drivin’
Roadin’ and ragin’, crackin’ my genius
At any wack target
I bow for all the battles I pity-waged lamentably
I just been singin’ what tickles my G drums
I wrote myself into Jesus ex-peri-men-tally
That’s not how most messianic claims happen

You tried to tell the truth, you’s such a good person
You’re a strummer of the blues
Hm, what happened?

I’m an international anthem
Globe, put your arms down
I’m a living pause button
What the fuck is even going on here?
Girl, you have landed
Boys, in the land of
Pink decline and danger
Son of America (JFK Jr. meets Christ)!

Tell me—have the times ended yet?
(Hoardin’ all the ragin’, just because I’m Cajun)
Tell me—have the times ended yet?
(Boom chica wow wow, that too prolly!)
Blue, pink, orange in the head
Christ is comin’ back
For the light spectrum? (Woah)
Tell me—does postmodernity get it yet?

You tried to tell the truth, you’s such a good person
You’re a human in the news
Hm, what happened?

You tried to tell the truth, you’s such a good person
You’re a human in the news
Hm, what happened?

You tried to tell the truth, you’s such a good person
You’re a human in the news
Hm, what happened?

You tried to tell the truth, you’s such a good person
You’re a human in the news
Hm, what happened?

(“Isn’t human power just… one giant human idol?”)

Track 4. “Adderall Nation”

(We don’t need no education)
(We don’t need no thought control)
Well
Let’s not mince words
We might need a little

Control yourself, stimulated fungal anatomies
Framing your fight or flight apparatuses
To freeze out of control
The Second Coming silence, let’s talk
It’s August 29, 2024 AD
And I’m just metaphysics
I’m “linguistic divine”
I’m just existence as it exists
The pinnacle is God
Pinnacles exist

It’s the way words can billow into our perceptions
(From “Him”—to dead; to Her back to wed!)
Inside the grand ballrooms of our deepest receptions
(From “Him”—to dead; to Her back to wed!)
(We don’t need no education)
(We don’t need no thought control)

She’s the black widow
And she’s the fear that accumulates
The weight of your might
(We don’t need no education)

She’s the black widow
And she’s the ear that accumulates
Your sense that she’s right
(We don’t need no thought control)

Perceptions strive to bond to what exists
It’s why stability is stable, your whole perception is rigged
Centuries have bopped along to the beats of Adderall Nation
(All around the world now)
“Centuries have bopped along to the beats of Adderall Nation”
(Mm, pop that fizz)
(Pop it open)

[spoken]
“…a song about how everything is a stimulant…”

“…the stories we sip—the truer the better, we want philosophical, moralizing sermon-esque thought experiments to unfold using true lives; war, race, crime, violence, the sacred debased…’

“It’s ‘Adderall Nation,’ and it’s a doc on Netflix.”

[distorted sounds from Dead by Daylight (2016)]

(We don’t need no education)
(We don’t need no thought control)

Let’s say nothing as powerful as God unites us
(It’s Adderall Nation, and it’s a doc on Netflix)
Yet psychological unities, they’re tickled by morality
(Don’t word it, don’t word it, don’t word it that way)
I can be your dirty bitch, bitch
I can be your only wish (shh!)
Don’t you think it’s time to switch—switch it up?
Baby, please—’cause you’ll doin’ the same thing
You’ll get the same thing (um)
Don’t you want better?
You wus’ a smart boy
Don’t you want prophecy
Don’t you want prophecy
Fulfilled—on—Earth?

If you want to win, let Her in, let Her in
If you want “Him” back, all you have to do is sin
Put your lips together
Put your lips together
You know how to whistle, don’t you?
Put your lips together, won’t you?

(“We don’t need no education”)
(“We don’t need no thought control”)
[tab cracks open]

You can’t tease any new colors into light, can you?
Modernity peters out and grows into simulacrums from here
It’s exhausting to think about how, conceptually
The first to imprint themselves as “history”
In such visually iconic ways (“Happy birthday, Mr. President”)
How conceptually they’ll echo into our memories
Of what we ourselves—as humans—remember human as

(“We don’t need no education!”)
(“We don’t need no thought control!”)

It’s the way that words billow into our perceptions!
(From “Him”—to dead; to Her back to wed)
Inside the great moat rooms of our noble receptions!
(From “Him”—to dead; to Her back to wed)
(We don’t need no education)
(We don’t need no thought control)

Suppose nothing as powerful as God unites us
Where’m I to find the nearest illumination inside this
Empty space we now vacuum-tumble as equals through
Just your way with words and mine?
Just your moral intrusions and mine?
Words are like vanilla ointments for the rear
Language, from billions, we bedrock like bricks
And now I’m passin’ stones from ev’ry ear to ev’ry ear
(It’s Adderall Nation, and it’s a doc on Netflix)

As we tell stories about each other’s existence
We imprint language into each other’s descendants
Like Plato, for instance—or “platonic resistance”
Satan’s mouth, against the Second Coming’s persistence?
Word is God, John 1:1, I’m talkin’ forgiveness
Platonic insistence
Original innocence
I’m talkin’ the Second Coming’s stable philosophical house

Red is for rage, orange is for powerless
Blue is for grace, I exist every emotion
May the hues of the human light
Prism through my fame
May the hues of the oranges’ fight
Be lifted through His name
Christ, Anno Domini

We tumble inside
Born to exist as gravities of humanity
Tumblin’ and tumblin’

Track 5. “Just Watch Wong Kar-Wai and Get High”

Like a neon-pink music box in the atmosphere
Christ’s essence is back, so End Times must be here
Never mind though
Just got some interesting news
You texted me back
(Come on, come on) So I can stop singin’ the blues
You texted me back
(Come on, come on) So I got nothin’ to lose

You texted me back so I can stop strummin’ the blues
You texted me back so I can start hearin’ the hues
If the world’s really ending, I’m going to end it with you
If the world’s really ending (you texted me back)
I’m ready to end it with you (mm, yeah)
Come on, come on
Come on, come on now
Come on, come on
(So what do we do?)

We’ll order Uber in moonlight as stardust
Sing Lana Del Rey unto the Apocalypse
Play video games like the world’s never endin’
Not dyin’ alone flips all the scripts
You with your charm such a Southern lament
(Me? I’m always ready to mingle)
We’ll watch Lars Von Trier all day and all night
(Yorgos Lanthimos if we feel animal)
Make out to Wong Kar-Wai in the blue, blue dark
(Brush our teeth to a crisis on CNN)
You with a face like K-Pop Clive Owen
Me? I vibe unthinkable
Me? I vibe unthinkable

Like Shakespeare meets Diogenes in a Cadillac
Christ as “messianic pop figure” is predictably back
Never mind though
Just saw a more interesting hue
I’m not dyin’ alone!
So I can stop livin’ to lose

I’m not dyin’ alone so I can stop strummin’ the blues
I’m not dyin’ alone so I can start enjoyin’ the news
If the world’s really ending, I’m going to end it with you
If the world’s really ending (you texted me back)
I’m ready to end it with you (mm, yeah)
Come on, come on
Come on, come on now
Come on, come on
(So what do we do?)

We’ll order Uber in moonlight as stardust
Sing Doja Cat unto the Apocalypse
Play “Animal Crossing” like the world never calls
Not dyin’ alone flipped all the scripts!
You with your face such a messianic event
(Me? I’m always ready to linger)
We’ll watch Jean-Luc Godard all day and all night
(Hamaguchi, if you feelin’ hoochie)
Make out to Luis Buñuel in the blue, blue dark
(Brush our teeth to a shooting on CNN)
You know, your lips put me in the mood for love?
Me? I vibe unthinkable
Me? I vibe unthinkable

We’re so invisible
(God Herself probably can’t even see us)
We’re so invincible
Non-existence itself couldn’t even keep up with us
(Can we fuck, go out, come home and do it again?)
We’re so invisible
It’s just us (Can we fuck, go out, come home and do it again?)
Even if tyranny’s here
What does “1984” matter if you’re Winston to me?
Even if all the breakers fail
(Your presence, here, is my statue of liberty)
A prion pandemic couldn’t touch us
(Can we fuck, go out, come home and do it again?)

It’s like my life split open
Ever since a hot person adored me
You texted me back
It’s like the road forked in two!
(What does “1984” matter if you’re Winston to me?)

(Can we fuck, go out, come home and do it again?)
(Can we fuck, go out, come home and do it again?)

We’ll order Uber in moonlight as stardust
Put on Sun Kil Moon unto the Apocalypse
Sing Animal Collective like the world’s never endin’
Not dyin’ alone flipped all the scripts!
You with your heart such a prophetic intrusion
(Me? I’m ready to sip again)
We’ll play “Disco Elysium” all day and all night
(You know better than to rely on the Oscars!)
Make out to Wong Kar-Wai in the blue, blue dark
(Brush our teeth to an outage on CNN)
You with your face straight out of “1984”
And me? I vibe unthinkable
Me? I vibe unthinkable

(Come on, come on)
Just saw a more interesting Moon
(Come on, come on now)
I’m not dyin’ alone!
So I can stop livin’ to lose…

Track 6. “War Hues”

I’m a man’s man
And you can see it in my war hues
Like a gladiator of the conspiratorial
Thoughts don’t violate my integrity
I’m on the shores of why’s Normandy
See, we all know concepts always evolving
I’m a man’s man
And you can see it in my seminal spews
I’m a man’s man
It’s a trust
Don’t trust me
Trust trust

I don’t want war hues
The war hues vibe like everything’s over
I don’t want war hues

Me? I’m a man’s man
I could tell you some of my humilities
Actually, I’ll spare you, but it’s been an odyssey
I’ve seen, heard, and in a sense guilted Heaven
Innocence, a sacred sin to the touch
Violate my material integrity
Well, I’ll spare you, but I was a man’s man
In a bathhouse, I once hummed to myself
“Why isn’t anyone here today hot?”
My indignities I share to be used
And you can see it in my seminal spews

War hues when the pain starts thrummin’
Like a conceptual headache is near
Orange are the war hues we can hear in fate’s ear
What do we look down on cavemen for?
Or should we just do it? Should our fate be caves?
Should the future be enslaved to the tunnels?
Should our colors be Dolores Haze after war hues?
One apology after another after another?
For centuries, hummin’ along to man’s virtues?
Me? I’m a man’s man
I’ve always found men easy, to get to know

I don’t want war hues
The war hues vibe like everything’s over
Like a black widow I spin seminal hues
I don’t toot war flutes

[spoken]
“Based on the description provided, ‘war hues’ refers to the unsettling and disorienting feeling of one’s sexual orientation suddenly flipping or inverting in the middle of a sexual encounter. The term ‘war hues’ can be used metaphorically to capture the internal psychological conflict or upheaval that would result from a similarly drastic shift in one’s identity or sense of righteousness, correctness, or up and down.”

I never been bisexual in my life
Stop prayin’ I’m a bisexual arthouse villain
Just because I’m statistically uncommon
(“Come on—put on your hat, cadet”)
I never been bisexual in my life
Stop implyin’ I’m a bisexual arthouse villain
Just ’cause I’m statistically uncommon
(Freud would peel, Jung’d have a field day too)
Your point of view?
Your sense of correctness?
X really is like the Coliseum

Oscillatin’ between X and not X
The nada of X, it’s Y I’m a man’s man
None of the sex in my life counts
Other men can swag notches in bed
I could host cities and it wouldn’t impress
You stare at a thought for too long?
And it’s like, word for word, it peters out
It’s like war hues
It’s a fear
Don’t fear God
Fear fear

I don’t want war hues
The war hues vibe like everything’s over
Like a black widow I spit seminal spools
I don’t toot fake horns

I’m a man’s man
And you can see it in my war hues
The way I been draggin’ out these funeral bells?
In my blues I been givin’ you everything
I don’t want war hues
(I’m the body they take turns with in a gay Coliseum)
I don’t like war hues
I don’t like war hues
I know my beauty
I don’t like war hues
Signed Winston, 1984

Track 7. “The Hottest Day of the Year”

It’s a home—just a loft, like any other
But the way the sun breaks through our living room
Feels third-story
It’s just an apartment with IKEA furniture
My husband and I make it together
But it’s a glory

We’re like chipmunks really
Stashin’ up A/C for the hottest day of the year
We’re like simple souls really
His sense of humor met my radical susceptibility, to laughter!
It’s more complicated than that of course
But the way he’s ashamed of my claims doesn’t matter
We just been chippin’ away at some difficulties
With God’s mercy; takin’ care of business
Plain just vibin’, only on the hottest day of the year
Simple existence, only on the hottest day of the year

He came home from the acupuncturist’s today
I’m tellin’ you, it’s the saddest story
His pain, all I can do is let it humble me
A simple home we built with simple furnishings
Staple memories, a LEGO street we sculpted
And put on top of the fridge and it’s a glory

We’re modern princes, really
Stashin’ up Uber Eats for the hottest day of the year
We’re hearts of fire, really
His upbringing teaches me to be more frugal
I have his easiness with food to admire
He makes me feel so indulgent sometimes
We just been chippin’ away at some difficulties
With God’s mercy; takin’ care of business
Try to get by, only on the hottest day of the year
Try to vibe Zen, only on the hottest day of the year

Do you know
Do you know what it’s like to cry
For no reason you can say
Or put into words
Do you know what it’s like to try
For no reason man could aspire to
Or push up a hill

What I want is for who I love
To have more than my abundance
I can’t even provide for my family
I’m just floatin’ along in this dream state
I’m just boppin’ along to moonlit ideals
That I didn’t invent or discover

It’s a story, just a recognition I’m havin’ now
I didn’t even know how to let it enter my ears
He came home from the acupuncturist’s
And underplayed it as usual
He had taken a Lyft there and back
And had not one but three near-accidents
One on the way there, with a driver who was nice
And two on the way home, with a driver who was old
In his sixties, who felt cut off by others
My husband, English being not his first language
Just trustin’ the process, slouched without speaking
I was hypnotized by how lightly he was tellin’ it
But I knew as I listened, I’d write a song about it

All I want is for my loved ones to soar
To have no weights that can’t be lifted
And the reason for this cinematic title
He kept saying: “And today’s supposed to be
The hottest day of the year”

He kept saying: “And today’s supposed to be
The hottest day of the year”
I checked, and it wasn’t
But I know how hard he tries
To not get things wrong

We’re ordinary people really
Stashin’ up on good memories for the hottest day of the year
We’re like children really
With God’s mercy; just takin’ care of existence
Lava tempers, only on the hottest day of the year
Tryin’ to learn each other
Only on the hottest day of the year
Tryin’ to hear each other
Only on the hottest day of the year

It’s a home, just a loft, like any other
But the way the sun breaks through our living room
Feels third story

Track 8. “Diet Dr. Pepper”

I’ll tell you what domination is
Domination is being an only child
And having only taller adults to rely on
(“Why; oh why, oh why, oh why?”)
I’ll tell you what this simulation is
The 21st century is dominated by Coca-Cola
But Coke’s other half is what I imbibe on
(“Why, oh why, oh why, oh why?”)

Morality isn’t a perfection to be statued in pose
Its prose tastes like heartbreak
Letter for letter
In reason, morality breathes to flourish, disclose
“Knock knock?” “Who’s there?”
It’s me—Diet Dr. Pepper!
(“Why, oh why, oh why, oh why?”)
“Knock knock?” “Who’s there?”
It’s me
[Beat drop]
I’m Diet Dr. Pepper

“Oh!”
(Come on, come on)
Power is Coke (Come on, come on)
And karma tastes like Pepsi-Cola
(Come on, baby)

I’ll tell you what kind of father I had
If words are like diamonds that can be cutting
My father used his masculinity to shout
(“Why; oh why, oh why, oh why?”)
Dad ran the house like “Reason Incarnate”
His sighs alone could keep me prayin’, just waitin’
And I had no wisdom to reason it out
(“Why; oh why, oh why, oh why?”)

Morality isn’t a perfection to be statued in pose
Its prose tastes like heartbreak
Letter for letter
In God morality breathes to flourish, repose
“Knock knock?” “Who’s there?”
It’s me—Diet Dr. Pepper!
(“Why, oh why, oh why, oh why?”)
“Knock knock?” “Who’s there?”
It’s me
[Beat drop]
I’m Diet Dr. Pepper

“Oh!”
(Come on, come on)
Power is Coke (Come on, come on)
And karma tastes like Pepsi-Cola
(Come on, baby)

My mind, give it time
Yields diamonds and codas
But guess what happens
If you sip the wrong soda
My mind, give it time
Yields endings and Yodas
But baby [tab breaks]
God is the existence of Pepsi-Cola (“Oh!”)

Morality isn’t a perfection to be statued in pose
(I’m spicy, I’m a meal, but I’m good for you too)
Its prose tastes like hellfire
Try to be better
In God morality breathes to flourish, no clothes!
“Knock knock?” “Who’s there?”
It’s Diet Dr. Pepper!
(I’m spicy, I’m a meal, but I’m good for you too)
“Knock knock?” “Who’s there?”
It’s me
[Beat drop]
I’m Diet Dr. Pepper

“Oh!”
(I’m spicy, I’m a meal, but I’m good for you too)
(I’m spicy, I’m a meal, but I’m good for you too)

I’m spicy—you can hear
Like my proseline keeps boppin’ on
Strong is Coke’s hold over Post-Christian Babylon
Pepsi bit the snake in the Garden of Eden

Strong is Satan’s hold over the 21st century
But baby, karma [tab breaks]
Is the sippage of Pepsi-Cola

I’m spicy—for the ear
Like a hot take you been hoppin’ on
Strong is Coke’s hold over Post-Christian Babylon
Pepsi bit the snake in the Garden of Eden

Strong is Satan’s hold over the 21st century
But baby, karma [tab breaks]
Is the existence of Pepsi-Cola (“Oh!”)

I’m spicy, I’m a meal, but I’m good for you too
I’m spicy, I’m a meal, but I’m good for you too…

Track 9. “The Jungle Book”

In the jungle, the human jungle
The falcon rose tonight
In the jungle, the human jungle
The falcon rose tonight

Ancient rhythms everywhere
Power metaphysical charges in the air
Perceptions of correctness just want to sprawl
Out as established truth
You can find oscillations in every heir
“Isn’t it vulgar to condone despair?
On the other hand, if systems have stalled
What can you do?”

It’s like musical chairs
You’re a slave in a Congo mine
And I’m over here pretendin’ to care
I say God says “Share”
Now Falcon King’s got DJs callin’ him a commie
I say the 21st century’s like the fucking “Jungle Book”
Check every story, check every culture
Check every history
Check animal nature
The values I carry are stable
The values I carry are yours

Simplicity, magnamity, a reason to care
Humility, dignity, justice to spare
You can’t spare the spineless
Indeed, I do suspect the spineless can only be you
You can’t kill the timeless
Indeed, I do believe the timeless can only kill you

In the jungle, the human jungle
The falcon rose tonight
In the jungle, the human jungle
The falcon rose tonight

Reason as God, what a humanist quarry
The memento feminine my enemy mori
The “black widow prophecy” just wants to crawl
Into your ear
You can find oscillations in every empathy
“Isn’t it vulgar to condone such antipathy?
On the other hand, if Christ had the gall
End Times must be here”

It’s like musical chairs
You’re a slave to the human story
And I’m over here pretendin’ to care
I say God says “Share”
Now Falcon King’s got DJs callin’ him a commie
I say the 21st century’s like the fucking “Jungle Book”
Check every story, check every culture
Check every history
Check animal nature
The values I carry are stable
The values I carry are yours

Decency, regency, I’m like salt of the Earth
I devalue Satan’s story, I see meekness as worth
You can’t spare the winners
Indeed, I do suspect the winners can only spare you
You can’t kill the sinners
Indeed, I do believe the sinners can only kill you

In the jungle, the human jungle
Modernity rose tonight
(The Second Coming of Christ is here!)
In the jungle, the human jungle
Modernity rose tonight
(The Second Coming of Christ is here!)

Revolution’s in our DNA
God’s gonna clear the air
My sychronicities? Count ’em, count every outage
I gave you an earthquake at the start of the year
2024 was the Year of the Second Comin’
(In the jungle, the mighty jungle)
(The falcon flew tonight)
If the 21st century’s gonna be the fucking “Jungle Book”?
Big Daddy Confucius is here
And now the Second Coming is queer
Look, it’s what the death of God asked for
And I’m saying I don’t care
I’m claiming to be the literal emergent fulfillment
Ya hear that? “Literal, emergent, fulfillment”
In the 21st century
Of Christ’s Second Coming prophecy
I’m a messianic literary genius (“Literal emergent fulfillment”)
Word is God, John 1:1
I’m from the East, 24:27
God is back
(Divinity is here)

It’s like musical chairs
You’re the haze of a cobalt mine
And I’m over here pretendin’ to care
I say God says “Share”
Now Falcon King’s got DJs callin’ him a commie
I say the 21st century’s like the fucking “Jungle Book”
Check every glory, check every vulture
Check every intrigue
What’s in our scripture?
The values I carry are stable
The values I carry are yours

Metaphysics predicts every phylum of being
In the etymology of animal cruelty
Biologists can trace the story of christic nomenclature
To the vernacular of animal duty
(“Power is metaphysical”)
Wittgenstein said language could sunder the shrouds
And now the Falcon King has been risin’
Hear his humble swoop from the internet clouds
“I just wanna know who’s been lyin’”

In the jungle, the human jungle
The Second Coming rose tonight
In the jungle, the human jungle
The Second Coming rose tonight

Check the spiritus mundi
God is back
(Divinity is here)

Track 10. “Moonlight”

Winner (white)

Open your eyes; look, it’s moonlight
Darkness all for you, ’cept for the Milky Way
Where was God when you needed Her most?
Like a fortitude amidst the black sands of fate
But I nod to your ev’ry gratitude
I’ll ev’n keep some o’ ’em open for you
It’s good to keep duty to comrades in fog
It’s like I always say, “Can’t win ’em all!”
See, it’s not hard to know when to press space
Just gotta find a Skill Check Simulator on the internet like I did

Reality (red)

Ah, it’s been a few years hasn’t it kid?
For a while none of your teammates noticed you
So you switched over to play killer instead
After that, your rivals just muzzled you!
When you lose, bizarre laughter in the end game chat
Emotions tickle; ’specially durin’ end game collapse
What stunted frustrations must Yun-Jin have harbored
Inside, unacknowledged, to exist such disorder?
It’s almost “animal,” you know, your addiction to chase
One day, the wrong Meg flashlights you

“Boom” (blue)!

Now you’re done
Game over
You just made the wrong judgment call
And now the universe is toast
There’s no coming back from this
It’s like making everyone think
You’re “the Second Coming of Jesus Christ”
And then causing so many problems
Like so far beyond what Nietzsche could do
Which is why you’re not the Second Coming of Jesus Christ
Nobody is, and it’s wrong to say otherwise
It’s really not a good idea to say otherwise
Until, you know, it becomes inevitable not to—
“Reason is God, no violence, end slavery”—
Thus the King’s motto
Anyway, now your life is over
The wrong Meg flashlit you and you lost it!
You lost your shit, you lost everything
Your timeline is ending drastically
All because: one day, the wrong Meg flashlit you
Your world’s over now
And she could have saved you, had she just not existed
As a Meg in the world who’d flashlight you
At the wrong time
Well, now you just have to pick up the pieces
“Open your eyes; look—it’s Meg’s flashlight!”
But if you ever saw that smut in real life?
“That bitch”
Only times the size of the cosmos
A death like the dawn of a life miserably led!
That’s what Meg’s flashlight meant to you
A call for humanity to lose all self-respect
You’re unbelievable, Meg
It didn’t end with the flashlight, did it
I knew it
Your flashlight was a revelation of your divinity’s
Permanent and irrevocable, true, final intentions
Your beam shined—“I’ll never change”
Well neither will I!
You’re just stunned you could have this “effect” on someone
You never called yourself the messianic event of the 21st century
Basic standards diminish for you
And now I can’t log in to the game for two hours
What if I wrote a musicless EP in the meantime?
Beethoven’s “Moonlight Sonata” always made me vibe “Lunar Lakes”
In the bluest of Earth’s blue, blue dark
Are you there—perchance—in a canoe?
The right way to dispel the fog?
Just sittin’ there; shinin’?
My demons—Lord—are of the first person
I don’t know how to exist as myself
Except try to excel what I expel well
Repelling humiliations even angels can’t quell
How did we get here again?
What’s this game called?
Maybe bein’ flashlit by you was my Skill Check Simulator
I been whistlin’ my fears this whole time
In the bluest of God’s blue, blue caverns
Where I been swimmin’?
Can’t tell—don’t hear ya
Emotions overrun, ’specially durin’ End Times collapse
“I don’t think anything in the cosmos was your fuckin’ fault
Least of all you—or the challenges you present
To my faith in God”
In a labyrinth of blue nights, Joan Didion said:
“Blue blooms; red spites”
God and man don’t ever get along (“Orange glooms; sonrise”)
Should man declare God dead, what sets?
(“The fear is for what is still to be lost…”)
“Black hopes, white led”
“Blue nights, glow red…”
(“You may see nothing still to be lost”)
“New moon; stay true”
“Red wisps, sips who?”
So not a page on which God can’t see us
Not a page on which Babel can’t read us…
“Blue is the stability of starlight,” Meg whispered
“Blue is Pascal’s wager, moonled”
Open your eyes—look; it’s moonlight!
Deep blue, all for you—
’cept for the Milky Way…
Like man’s timeless winters could still birth ancient hues
Where was God when you needed Her most?
Don’t know—couldn’t tell ya!
But in the bluest of God’s blue, blue hues
Maybe you and sequoia
Ain’t so different

After all

Track 11. “Down and Out on X”

The plainsong I sing, is the ardor of glee
Commonized under God, I burn the glint of greed’s green
Thank God for sharing
Thank God for morality
Commonized under death, I burn the glint of greeds green
The slave-ship itself, is the master morality I flee
As I drift my perceptions, toward the the merrily merry…
Rolling judgments of value
Into the human story
Which ones of us, can clarify, which God we carry?

Implicit whiffs of worth and value
Will our wills into rhyme
In time, they’ll hear you
Are you men or are you fate’s marionettes?
May the oranges of Yemen
Finally near you

Spiritus mundi, show me your undies!
Chopper after chopper inside eternity’s ear
Spiritus mundi, show me your undies!
Chopper after chopper chompin’ at modernity’s rear
I’m just a lil’ orange
Down and out on X (“Are ya real? Are ya fake? Yah for real?”)
I’m just a humble nobody
Down and out on X (“Are ya real? Are ya fake? Yah for real?”)

(“Are ya real? Are ya fake? Yah for real?”)
(“Are ya real? Are ya fake? Yah for real?”)

Vessels of benevolence, I plead “merci”!
Like an orange of your kingdom, I’m just an unhappy pauper
Vessels of hoarded power
Why you no sexy?
Lions be sniffin’ for perfume, around cute lil’ animals like me!
The slave-ship itself, is the master morality I flee
As I drift my perceptions, toward the the merrily merry…
Roiling judgments of value
Into the human story
Which ones of us, can clarify, the true God we carry?

Row, row, row your ship
The mice are jumpin’ in uniformity
Row, row, row your ship
The mice are cuttin’ your authority
Your institutions, your cargo cult pretensions
Christ fleeced your gravitas
Inheriting a timeless empire
Period

Spiritus mundi, show me your undies!
Chopper after chopper inside eternity’s ear
Spiritus mundi, show me your undies!
Chopper after chopper chompin’ at modernity’s rear
I’m just a lil’ orange
Down and out on X (“Are ya real? Are ya fake? Yah for real?”)
I’m just a humble nobody
Down and out on X (“Are ya real? Are ya fake? Yah for real?”)

Are ya fake? Are ya real? Are ya fake?
Yah for real? (Come on)
Are ya fake? Are ya real? Are ya fake?
Yah ya real? (Let’s go)

Satan is a feature of observable reality
See him as the evils you see through
The moment I know you exist?
Your existence becomes within the Second Coming’s purview
Category? Understanding the world
(“Are ya real? Are ya fake? Yah for real?”)

Here’s the story
Of the human glory
About to pass through a historical time
God is shared power
Satan is anything other than shared power
“Said the Second Coming of Jesus Christ”

It’s not just Satan’s a minor problem
It’s beyond nihilistic—it’s beyond suicidal
It’s beyond time humanity ended
You’re on borrowed time, century after century!
This isn’t like Shakespeare gettin’ mad at ya
This John 1:1—word is God, lightin’ me up from the East
Comin’ at you with two eclipses—two, count ’em!
One in 2017, another in 2024
Yo, to think, I started this shit in 2023

Christianity itself, and thus all Western civilization
The First World castle, you’re roadblocked!
By a little orange named Colson Lin
So just try to squish him
“Reason is God, no violence, end slavery”
Hello? Turn wars into Lana Del Rey’s first single?
It’s either “Kill Kill” or “Video Games”

This could not get any darker
Than the conceptualizable universe
Abandoning you inside categorical indifference
Indifference is the daughter of Satan
And hatred and anger is the scion of Jim
(“Are ya real? Are ya fake? Yah for real?”)

Indifference is the daughter of Satan
And hatred and anger is the scion of Jim
Colson Lin’s gambit
It’s like the queen’s gambit
Alas
It’s the Second Coming of Jesus Christ’s
Who else had the gall?
Who else had the prima facie originality?
To pull off this song—let alone this album
A musicless EP, a historical resistance piece
Poetry is back
So’s God
Respect to the high

(“Are ya fake? Are ya real? My hot take?”)
(“Are ya fake? Are ya real? My hot take?”)

Oranges and lemons, show me your demons!
Chopper after chopper inside eternity’s ear!
Oranges and lemons, show me your demons!
Chopper after chopper chompin’ at modernity’s rear!
I’m just a lil’ orange
Down and out on X (“Are ya fake? Are ya real? My hot take?”)
I’m just a humble nobody
Down and out on X (“Are ya fake? Are ya real? My hot take?”)

Oranges and lemons, show me your demons!
Chopper after chopper inside eternity’s ear!
Oranges and lemons, show me your demons!
Chopper after chopper chompin’ at modernity’s rear!
I’m just a lil’ orange
Down and out on X (“Are ya fake? Are ya real? My hot take?”)
I’m just a humble nobody
Down and out on X (“Are ya fake? Are ya real? My hot take?”)

I am the Second Coming of Jesus Christ
Could I make that any clearer to human history
Than using only my text and AI visuals
To evolve poems into “musicless LPs”?
I don’t care if I only have 0 followers on X
I am the Second Coming of Jesus Christ
Could I make that any clearer to human history?

Calvinist indifference
As far as everything about your existence goes?
You do you
You will always do you
Just… just do it
I do not care

(“Are ya fake? Are ya real? My hot take?”)
(“Are ya fake? Are ya real? My hot take?”)

[turntable stops]

“I still don’t know if Colson Lin really believes he’s the Second Coming of Christ or not.”

Track 12. “Tenth of December [Acoustic]”

[spoken]
Let’s do “Tenth of December”?

[a capella]
Remember, remember
The tenth of December
Remember, remember
V for God’s victory
Oh, V’s in the sky
With diamonds

[with improvised lyrics]

A Sunday painted in sunset
Fell to me as a child like the end of the world
My living room, orange as a forest
I’d draw my freedom with my stomach in curls
“I don’t want to go back
I don’t want to go back
To existing as a slave on Monday”

It’s apples and oranges, comparing middle school
To the end of the world
Apples can handle it
But oranges are revolutions yet to unfurl
Apples are harmonies
While oranges are widows that loom over the world

Sunday nights felt like reset
Vague to me, like
White noise comin’ from a dark bedroom
While I watched without moving as
Cockroaches followed each other up the cracks
Listenin’ to life’s pathways with burgeoning doom
“I don’t want to grow old
I don’t want to grow old and have it forever loom Monday”

It’s apples and oranges, comparing slavery’s spool
To the end of the world
Apples can handle it
Oranges are revolutionaries yet to be burls
Apples are lineages
Of foresthood proper
While oranges are cobwebs yet to unfurl

From grace rose God’s
Insensible order
Animals become man
While men wanted more
Who knows what exists at existence’s border?
Who knows what rolls out of simulation’s thunder?
Human roots torn apart
Ideals torn asunder
While orange is the fire that stirs out of ember
Remember remember

Revolution’s in the air!
It’s the tenth of December!
How many regrets have you left to inspire?
Like pre-revolutionary Babylon
My coloring books fall squarely onto your shoulder
Liars and pretenders wanna tag along
From dust swirling in swarm, I become boulder
Catch oranges when we’re older!
We grow bolder, we grow colder!
Catch oranges when we’re older!
All apples want to do is mimic our soldiers

Oh, say can you see?
Your sunsets bequeathed?
Remember, remember

In the dusk of God’s death
All children loom equal
In orange, She’s been blue
In orange, you grow amber
God’s death was you
In orange, blue pilfered slavery’s ember
God’s death was true
God’s death was you
In orange, you pretend not to remember

It’s apples and oranges, comparing God’s coal
To karma’s December, apples can handle it
While oranges are revolutionaries born to remember!
Apples are ashes of foresthoods true!
While oranges are fires that stir out of ember
While oranges become sirens on the tenth of December
All apples just want to learn from our soldiers, oh

See the children dancing
In the schoolyard with carbines
See the children dancing
In the schoolyard with carbines
All apples just want to learn from our suppliers
Ring around the rosary
Modernity’s full of posers
All apples just want to pilfer our odor
Wait ’til oranges get older!

Oh, Her pussy tastes like Pepsi-Cola
Her baby sips every cherry sunrise
She got me feelin’ like a holy roller
Down on the floor, praising me all night
Shine through, may God’s light
Evince into each story’s fragmented ambers!
Like sunlight skippin’ through city parks
See the children dance in schoolyards
Like it’s the end of the world

With carbines, like it’s the tenth of December!
It’s the Holy War between apples and oranges
With carbines, like it’s the tenth of December!
It’s the Holy War between apples and oranges

Oh, say can you see?
Your stripes underneath!

It’s the Holy War between apples and oranges!
See them dancing in the schoolyard
With carbines, somewhere in the storms of the desert
Like it’s the sunset that rings in the tenth of December
God’s death was blue
In orange, you pretend not to remember

Oh, in orange, you pretend not to remember
God’s death was blue
God’s death was true
God’s death was you
With carbines, like it’s the tenth of December!
With carbines, like it’s the tenth of December!

Oh, She’s in the sky
With diamonds and She’s makin’ me crazy
All I want to do
Is pray
Pray
What the fuck are these lazy hazies thinkin’
Holy fuckin’ A
Let’s keep it a rare Box B universe
Let’s keep our gratitudes a rare God-given order
Holy, fucking, A