Pack it up Dax!
Everybody already remixed this song!
You're trash! Go, home!
But, but, I wanna try too!
Don't cry?
Alright, alright, hurry up, hurry up, c'mon
Just, just don't fuck it up

[Verse]
On point like an HP pencil
I could talk shit but I just got dental
That head was a little insane, her IQ EQ'd all of my mental (Oh!)
These niggas say I can't make hooks, this Peter Pan flow 'bout to captain this tempo
And make you go crash 'cause the way my car dash
It'll make you go Kim and K-Kylie your Kendall (Oh my god!)
I short bust, my nuts are still special
I got sauce to beef with your pesto
You can't chest the problems I shoulder
My leg up ensures I'm up next (necks) so
Won't stop throwing bars
I'm green bay to farve
My soup(er) bowls'll heat up your end zone
Microwave and blaze your credentials
Wash away and MJ your skin tone (Shit)
What's poppin'?
If I'm not, bitch, you toxic
If you can make a song with no hook and make it go viral
Please, bitch, drop it
Throwing up hits, get it? I vomit
Throwing up bricks, get it? You're onyx
My bars poke ya, mon'
Don't get in the way when I come through the lane and start jammin'
Smoking this beat like a Rastafarian
Had to fish my drip just to acquire-em'
Get it? Aquarium, fish, water
Had to work hard just to drip harder
Cut the beat then slowly fade it in like a middle-class neighborhood barber (Fuck!)
Let's pause it
I'm 6 feet like the space recommended for COVID
19 bars already put this beat in a coffin
If you say you're better, you're KAP like Colin
If you want a feature, text us like Austin, we will reply in August!
2 guns in my pocket
See these? (CDs?) You better walk, man!
I'ma Bodman (Batman) how this beat I'm Robin
I'm cold but I'm not common
I'm in this bitch
One stroke to the hole but I'm not fucking, bitch, I'm golfing
People say they could do better, they just talking
I'm about to toss 'em
I'm not sold on you but the way I celt-ic, I could live in Boston
These bars don't come around too often
They connect like Sprint, ketchup, bitch, why are you jogging?
You mustard, I'm a YouTube rapper
Well, if I am, then why ain't I vlogging?
That's what they try to say and stop him
But his punchlines won't let them box him in
My mic's enticing (Mikes in Tyson) them to think this holyfield is a boxing ring (Ugh)
God, what's the point of rapping these words?
I would probably make more money if I spent all my time doing what the mainstream prefers
But I ain't finna follow the sheep inside that herd
One hit'll make 'em wonder when I spit my verse
Niggas thinking that they rapping wit' me is absurd
I be preying on these beats but I'm not in no church
I'm due like rent on the 1st of the month
Bruce Lee with the flips, bitch, I do my own stunts
These nigga get (MOON)ED when I come through
So ass, they could probably be my suns
I'm bout to get technically technical
So many flows, I be rapping with tentacles
If after this, you're still skeptical
I will have to set you straight like a heterosexual
My wordplay's highly impeccable
So impeccable
90 percent of the bars in this song are not even detectable
And if you did hypothetically, you wouldn't see how they're three-dimensional
What's poppin'? If I'm not by 2021, this rap game's garbage
I don't remix beats, I kill them then I pay homage
My bars link like sausage
I always hit it on the nail like polish
This rap shit's gotta be my calling
I go
Bing, bing, bing, bing!
Bitch, I finished college
How do you think I got all this knowledge?
Shooting it up, yeah, the nigga was ballin'
Getting my cheese like I'm out in Wisconsin
I went bing, bing, bing!
How am I finished? I ain't even started
'Bout to go dumb like I'm going retarded
If you talk rap, I go the hardest (Yeah)
Rapping is critical
I embody each and every word and every syllable
I put all of me inside in each and every visual
I'm addicted to working, you're barely seeing my pinnacle
Mental and all the physical
So I'm never divisible
If you thought I was, you're dirty and pitiful
You can go and get a knife and cut off all of your genitals
How I come with this lyrical
Makes me damn near invincible
If they wanna battle, they can't win!
How I come in is criminal
Make a hater feel miserable
When I get up and do my dance!
You don't gotta say it no more
We all know that I'm bringing that stamina
Eating beats like an animal
NAIJA boy outta Africa
Grew up hooping in Canada who used to be a ja—
You might also like[Outro]
Jan-janit—
Y'all finish the sentence9