Here we go
Ay, bigman, ay, Zeph
Yeah, Dot, what's good?
Before I go in on this yute, have you got any bars?
Mmm, I'm a producer, so, let me think

[Bridge: Zeph Ellis]
They're calling me Zeph, I'm a G, I been bossing it
I'm always producing, that's how I been profiting
My beats are £15K, are you copping it?
He said, "Zeph, calm down G, you're mocking it"

[Interlude]
Dot Rotten
Yo
Brigade
Pressure, pressure
Dot Rotten is back
How many times has Zeph done kwengins?
What time is it? 4AM in the morgue
Ay Jay, what's good?
FLP Empire
Putting an end to all the bullshit you produce
FLP Mafia, real drill shit
Are you ready Jay?
You might also like[Verse 1]
That face is suspicious, you're a sweet boy, no trace of a villain
And deep down, no danger is in him
He tried grab beats but no paper was with him
In the DM's, talk crazy, ridiculous
On the story, you're playing the victim
Bitch boy, go get engaged with your big ring
'Cause you won't hear me say "bruddah, I'm joking"
If my plan is I'm taking your Mrs, hah
Yeah bruddah, I'm toking
I've got a strain called 'Industry Plant' that I'm rolling
That's you, yeah bruddah I'm smoking
How you gonna take three weeks to pattern one of my beats
With a sniper, rappers I'm scoping
You ain't never lived that street life
Demon mentality, where I'm from, I'm omen
And I'll have your own fans like, "Dot owned him"
I'ma wipe my arse with a Jay1 sixteen bar
I can't help it, it's softer than loo roll
Diss me, you're taking the Mickey
I'll call up my darg and I'll send man straight into Pluto
Brother, this little thing ain't pretty
I'll fuck up the market just to see you boohoo though
An MC not to be fucked with, in the UK, bro I am the numero uno
Why do these rappers love talk about shopping?
Acting like a trip to the corner shop
Ain't something that everybody on this planet does often
Okay, so you went Harrods
And spent cash on designer wear cah' you thought it was poppin'
Twenty grand a show, tell me you ain't got it
I'ma tell the ANR, the price went up
Now it's all mazzaleen inside of your office
£15K for a Zeph Ellis beat, Dot's taking the P
For the money get smothered
Yes, I got employees doing my admin
I ain't sending one email, I got shit covered
How you gonna walk in the studio as a kid but leaving act grown?
Your persona is butters
I'll give him the DDT from the bunk bed treatment
Memories for older brothers
Making these beats ain't easy, never been on freebies
So I hit 'em with racks
Them boy there better run to the bank
How you do twenty grand shows but you act brass?
Steel Banglez just dialed me and said
"Oi Zeph, bro-bro, we got platinum plaques"
I said, "Love bro-bro, we got more on the way
We die hard for the game 'cause we're action packed"
Making a juice in a penthouse with couple bad b's and trust me they're all famous
Stick it on me? Nah that's a bad time
Better act right 'cause I headshot haters
You warn play? I'm a oldschool gamers, no SEGA's
We them Space Invaders
You came to me to get that serious workout
But you couldn't handle the basic training
We had problems but now I spud William
And more hunnies when I fuck brilliant
Bruddah in the field, my vibe's electric, trust Simion
I'm on crud like Russ Millions
You'll get spun with due diligence
I ain't sweet but you cinnamon
Let's do polls but "Who's feeling him?"
You can't tell me that I'm doing this for clout
I gave him a beat and I was tryna bring him in
Shit, BTEC Stormzy wanna war me
Bro-bro better buy a blammer
True talk, he wants to be Stormzy so much
He told me he try draw Maya Jama
How you gonna steal man's voice, vocab
Pronouns, ad-libs, verbs, lines and grammar?
You wanna do DJ Argue?
I'll stand up and par you now with the style of Jammer
He's in the studio tryna sing notes for gyal
I make him whine in the house like Amy
GRM signed him, but but, man don't care about all that
I'm on my Giggs and JME
I like the yout when he walked into the studio
A couple weeks later, I'm just like pay me
I'm J.E, you will not say Jay won
When I bring ether like Nas and I make JAY-Z
No reasonable doubt when I come with the blueprint
Just watch the throne I get Kanye crazy
Your bars are bob standard shit
Just got anchors, stop, you're not gangsters and you're not wavy
You told me "Bro I'm just tryna' get better"
So here's a challenge for the task, Jay1 rate me
You got this big shepherd escorting you to the slaughter house
And Jay, it's about to get shavey
You know the style OG, I say cool down
Relax you heard what I said my yout
How you gonna get boyed by your own girl in the club
And then act just went viral?
How many memes with captions did your actions get attached and then spiral?
I'm ninja, you won't see me taking your misses
But I'm giving her back entitled
Laptop, sumo, studio beats heavy
Open the Fruity Loops, give me 15 minutes
I guarantee the beat's ready
I make a room full of goons heads bop, (pause)
But I got it looking like Keisha's Becky
Technical breakdown, industry shakedown
£15k for my beats, it's reddies
Move like a lawyer, it's fees by the minute
1k when you hearing the beat, it's tekky
By the time that we get to the £5k point
Melody and baseline, I cleaned it steady
By the time that we get to the £10k point
I done mixed down and I'm tweaking semi
I just made £15k in 15 minutes when I open FLP's, it's fetties
Someone find me a broker with a 95 percent success rate in trading
Cause I don't know about pips and charts
But I'm trending upwards, different class
Bro I went school on Hackford Road
Vincent Van Gogh, I'm on different art
Jay1 grew up in Coventry, hah
What you know about drilling in Brixton darg?
You violate Zeph, instant pars
[Interlude]
Haha
Ay, and now your management are saying they got £10k in the budget and only £10k?
I might let it slide, just for the fact that there's still PRS and repost money, etc, etc

[Verse 2]
Dot's rotten I came from rock bottom
When the cops swap shots do they stop shotting?
Listen how I'm firing a man to show him he's not bossin'
They're saying 'calm down stop mocking'
The fans are saying that they want 'Dot back'
It's soon Christmas I got gifts, hope you got stockings
Time's money and my lines popping, the clocks tocking
Being broke's not an option
I'm taking the piss quick, nah bruddah I'm joking
Actually I'm serious, God level in the studio, Beerus
So don't play bruddah
I'll body you and end up on Shade Borough
Don't wanna credit me, say naddah
£15k, you should pay bruddah
But £10k it's okay, Hahahaha