**Translated Lyrics:**

The day drives into darkness, as the Lord commands;  
But wild winds of the world awaken thereabout,  
Clouds cast coldly down to the earth,  
With enough night from the north to chill the naked;  
The snow snapped sharply, biting the wild;  
The whirling wind wrapped from the heights,  
And filled every dale with great drifts.  
The man listened well who lay in his bed,  
Though he closed his eyes, he slept little;  
With each crowing cock, he knew well the sound.  
Quickly he dressed up before the day broke,  
For there was light from a lamp that shone in his chamber;  
He called to his chamberlain, who swore to him loyally,  
And asked him to bring his armor and his fine saddle;  
That other quickly helped him up and fetched him his gear,  
And prepared Sir Gawain in a grand manner.  
First, he clothed himself in garments to ward off the cold,  
And then his other armor, which was kept well,  
Both his breastplate and his plates, polished clean,  
The rings shook off the rust of his rich armor;  
And all was fresh as at first, and he was glad then  
to thank;  
He had on each piece,  
Wiped well and splendid;  
The finest in Greece,  
The knight commanded to bring his steed.  
While he donned the most splendid garments—  
His coat with the design of clear work  
Embroidered on velvet, virtuous stones  
Beaten and bound, embroidered seams,  
And fair fur within with fine pelts—  
Yet he did not leave the lace, the lady's gift,  
Who did not forget Gawain for good of himself.  
When he had belted the sword upon his bare hips,  
Then he dressed his finery around him,  
Tightly wrapped about his waist sweetly that knight  
The girdle of green silk, that suited him well,  
Upon that royal red cloth that was rich to show.  
But this same man did not wear this girdle for joy,  
For pride of the pendants, though polished they were,  
And though the glittering gold gleamed at the ends,  
But to save himself, when suffering required,  
To endure harm without debate of sword to wear  
or knife.  
By then the bold man was ready  
To win through there soon,  
All the company of renown  
He thanked often full richly.

Then was Gryngolet prepared, that was great and huge,  
And had been stabled safely and in a sure way,  
He longed to prance for sport, that proud horse then.  
The man mounted him and tightened his girth,  
And said soberly to himself and swore by his truth:  
'Here is a company in this meeting that thinks of honor,  
The man maintains them, may joy they have;  
The dear lady alive may love her befall;  
If they for charity cherish a guest,  
And hold honor in their hand, the noble shall yield  
Who holds heaven on high, and also you all!  
And if I might live upon land any while,  
I should repay you some reward readily, if I could.'  
Then he stepped into the stirrup and straddled high;  
His squire showed him his shield, on shoulder he laid it,  
Girded to Gryngolet with his gilt heels,  
And he sprang on the stone, stood no longer  
to prance.  
His nobleman on horse was then,  
Who bore his spear and lance.  
'This castle to Christ I commend':  
He gave it all good fortune.  
The bridge was drawn down, and the broad gates  
Unbarred and borne open on both sides.  
The knight blessed him soon, and the bridges passed—  
Praise the porter before the prince knelt,  
Gave him God and good day, that Gawain he save—  
And went on his way with his wife alone,  
Who should teach him to turn to that troubled place  
Where the dreadful race he should receive.  
They bowed by banks where bends are bare,  
They climbed by cliffs where the cold clings.  
The heavens were uplifted, but ugly beneath;  
Mist hung on the moor, malt on the mountains,  
Each hill had a hat, a huge mist-hackle.  
Brooks boiled and broke by banks about,  
Shining, shattering on shores, where they down showed.  
Well was the way where they by woods should go,  
Until it was soon the season that the sun rises  
that time.  
They were on a hill very high,  
The white snow lay beside;  
The knight who rode by  
Bade his master abide