Chainz!
Bitch!

[verse 1]
You ain’t been poppin’ in years (woo!)
Now you try bumpin’ your gums (bumpin’ your gums!)
Shootin’ your shot at the lord
The devil gon’ come for your guts (brrt!)
I sold my soul to the devil for fun
Glock to my head, bullets all over my tongue
Covered in fellonies, soak you in kerosene
Google my record, bitch i’m not the one (uh)
I’m finna’ say what i wanna, (say what i wanna)
I’ve been at aim for the gunner (skria!)
Bet you do nothing about it, ‘cus you ain’t about it
You’re soft as the rubber i use on your mother
But not on your bitch, she get piped with no jimmie’
I’m givin’ your daughter a brother, but fuck it
You’re runnin’ and duckin’
They say that you’re thuggin’
Them choppers ain’t nothin’
I rеally been blooded
Cut up your body
I fuck with the soma
Nevеr gon’ hesitate
Hearin’ you reference’s all that i wanted
G-eazy said that you’re lame and you’re buggin’
Em’ said you’re plugged into nothin’
Come to my city, you’ll see that i’m plugged into thunder
Stay in your lane, this is bumper to bumper
You can get hit like what’s under dem cover
You might also like[Chorus]
Man, no one gives no motherf-ck about no mgk
I’ll murder you and keep the pushin’ like its dgk
Bitch you’re not welcomed, throwin’ shade
Let’s call it speaker sway
You’re soft as fuck, all that hoe’s out your dna

[verse 2]
You’s a bitch, i hit up diddy, i’m your new replacement
You got no record, got no charges, bitch so how you gangsta?
Check my rep’ shit, it’s on google, i ain’t fake to make it
Man you’s a pussy
Know that chopper leave you smooth and shaven
I’ve been to prisons where they k!ll you if you’re white and tatted
But i survived, so what’s that say? i think i like a challenge
Yeah i’m thug, got lot of matter, shit, my mind’s unbalanced
You’ve been talkin’ like you’re tough, but you ain’t ’bout that action
Three rounds in the ring with the beats down
Three rounds in the (???) put the beast down
Freestyle with the heat on my waist
Everybody lookin’ at me like i’m c now (woo!)
You’re frontin’ the yelawolf but you’re big now
I can / flip kelly like a dismount
Ru-run up at your crib for the get down
Have you beggin’ me, tellin’ me put the stick down (ah!)
How’re you the devil if you’re christian? bitch you’re trippin’
I’ve got pentagrams and candles
Summonin’ demon’s wicked wisdom
Unknown that i can’t be beat
‘cus i’ve seen it when it was written
I signed on the dotted line
And i started collectin’ victims
Who you flexin’?
You ain’t satan, you look like you’ll write a statement
I take me a flight to cleveland, i pull up at your location
Y’all no worries like i’m wayne, i’ve got bodybags in the bas-m-nt
I take a trip back today, and get blood all over my apr-n
Whatchu’ sayin’?
I’ve got partners out in cleveland reppin’, heartless felons
The darkness spread, and you know lyrically i’m armageddon
I start to head in your direction with your heart to heaven
I (???) your mail and leave you h-llous when i spark the weapon
I’m fucking startled
This honkey honk in his jaws like he ’bout it
Your dad was probably too drunk and sloppy
To see that you’re clownin’
It’s hard to see around my way, you know
There’s gun smokin’ cloudy
I’ll be the cracker that k!lled the gunner
So don’t pull around me
You really don’t want no pardon me
Fuck that shit that you talk about her
To cover all your tracks
And i can see that you talk a lot
Let the chopper speak for itself
He got words for the both of ’em
Install a scope on top of the stick
You won’t even get close enough
You’s a bitch, i’m in atlanta, you don’t wanna find me
I’ve been eatin’, i’m undefeated so come and try me
Grab the hammer, i go bananas, i show you rhymin’
It’s perfect timing, i throw some chalk on your silver lining
Uh
[Chorus]
No one gives no motherf-ck about no mgk
I’ll murder you and keep the pushin’ like its dgk
Bitch you’re not welcomed, throwin’ shade
Let’s call it speaker sway
You’re soft as fuck, all that hoe’s out your dna (out your dna!)