**Translated Lyrics:**

[Intro: KC Rebell]  
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah  

[Part 1: KC Rebell]  
Son, look here, I’ll make you really fresh (Ah)  
I don’t like your attitude (Eh, eh)  
I’m telling you: Keep your feet still  
Or they’ll scrape you off the radiator grill (Sorry)  
I greet my fans in the stadium (Hello)  
I avoid the yellow Haribos (Keep your distance)  
And whenever the rebel comes around  
You think it’s Denzel Washington (Oh wow)  
When you see me stepping out of the car  
You realize right away: You’re not my size (No, no, no)  
Get lost, don’t talk nonsense (Siktir)  
I’ll break your jaw and nose  
Believe me, I fight when I have to  
Watched too much Jackie Chan as a kid (Yeah)  
I grew up with creatures (Ah)  
One kick and you’ll do a somersault  
I’m currently high in my head  
Could be that I’m boxing cops  
I shout out loud: “I screw the cops!” (Screw the cops!)  
I’m crazy, you know that (Ah)  
Did you finally rock your high school diploma?  
Do you celebrate to the Lamborghini song too? (He)  
I’d rather put you on the guest list (Hm)  
Because you look like the last loser  

[Hook: KC Rebell & Summer Cem]  
We’re alike, but the only difference is this:  
You live a few streets over  
But while you’ve missed the bus your whole life  
We keep driving  
In my Murciélago  
This is a Murciélago  
Passing you in the Murciélago  
Look at my Murciélago  

[Part 2: Summer Cem]  
Last night your sister was here (Oh)  
I admit: it wasn’t right of me (No)  
Could it be you’re losing your respect? (Could it be?)  
Since when do you talk so cheekily to me? (Since when?)  
Damn, I have a hole in my stomach (Damn!)  
Put some more artichokes on it (More, more)  
Have you looked from my balcony? (He?)  
It looks like Lanzarote  
You’re not a stylist on Broadway (You loser!)  
Because you wear Nike and Lacoste (Yeah)  
You’re just a jerk (Jerk!)  
I screw your girl on my day off (Ah)  
My mom suffers from headaches  
Whenever I’m in the Rheinische Post (Sorry)  
Why are you playing the al-Qaeda film  
When your boys are just Dalmatians?  
Please don’t threaten me (No)  
Look down the barrel of my gun (Yeah)  
We’ll drag you out of the apartment (Yeah, yeah, yeah)  
After that, you’ll look like Quasimodo  
It’s okay that you’re not a model (It’s okay)  
And a bit chubby (Yeah)  
Occasionally eating fries (Yeah, yeah, yeah)  
But please don’t overdo your role!  

[Hook: KC Rebell & Summer Cem]  
We’re alike, but the only difference is this:  
You live a few streets over  
But while you’ve missed the bus your whole life  
We keep driving  
In my Murciélago  
This is a Murciélago  
Passing you in the Murciélago  
Look at my Murciélago  

[Part 3: KC Rebell & Summer Cem]  
I hang out with the chick Monika  
Which one? The one from Santa Monica  
Which one? The one with the harmonica  
The one who cheated on her ex with us  
Ah, that one who doesn’t use condoms?  
Hasn’t had a permanent place for eight years?  
Who never moved?  
Always hanging out with the guys in the basement?  
You mean the one with the dark motorcycle?  
Yeah, the one who came into my wardrobe  
I took her on my upper arm (And then?)  
We gave each other nicknames  
A year later I saw her without a tooth  
So how’s Veronica’s dog doing?  
Huh, who’s Veronica?  
Hey, I mean Veronica!  
Oh, you mean Veronika  
Look, I have my trial day today  
Where’s your trial day today?  
I’m a detective at L'Oréal  
Don’t you believe it? Today’s the first, my paycheck is here  
Oh, you’re such a detective, son, yeah  
Then tell me the capital of Portugal!  

[Hook: KC Rebell & Summer Cem]  
We’re alike, but the only