**Translated Lyrics:**

Yah, yah, yah, yah  
Thahahaha  
O.C Dawgs! ExB!

[Chorus: Bosx1ne]  
Forget about that, come on, come on, have some fun  
Don’t get too crazy, just laugh it off  
Problems with girls shouldn’t be taken to heart  
Let them chase after you, right?  
I told you, they’re all just playing games  
Once they’ve used you, they’ll suddenly disappear, oh-oh  
So don’t repeat the past, so don’t repeat the past

[Verse 1: Jnske]  
Here we go again (Again), when will you learn? (Learn)  
Love is a headache (Headache)  
So don’t let yourself be fooled (Fooled)  
Why do you believe so easily? (Aight)  
Haven’t you learned from your past? (That’s right)  
How many more times do I have to advise you? (Woo)  
I just don’t want you to get hurt (Brrt-brrt)  
I’m not putting you down, down, down, but when you choose  
Most of them nowadays are quick to take advantage  
It’s easy to scratch an itch when it arises  
So think carefully now, my friend

[Verse 2: King Badger]  
Take it slow with your infatuation  
With someone you should just forget  
You need to let go of those problems  
Because no matter how you look at it, it’s just a girl  
I know you know it’s easy to be foolish  
But the bad part is, you want to keep her around  
Those kinds of girls shouldn’t be taken seriously  
Stop it, with so many fools, don’t be one of them  
So let me know if you’re tired of being played  
Let me know if you’re done with games  
Let me know if you’re ready to walk away  
Because I told you, they’re all just playing games, ugh

[Chorus: Bosx1ne]  
Forget about that, come on, come on, have some fun  
Don’t get too crazy, just laugh it off  
Problems with girls shouldn’t be taken to heart  
Let them chase after you, right?  
I told you, they’re all just playing games  
Once they’ve used you, they’ll suddenly disappear, oh-oh  
So don’t repeat the past, so don’t repeat the past

[Verse 3: Brando]  
They’ll just use your fame  
I told you, not everyone is sincere  
Those bitches only care about riches  
Don’t let them define your worth and feelings  
From the beginning, it’s never enough  
Who are you? When they want something, they’ll take it  
Slowly, you’ll be used like a toy  
So just laugh it off, man, it’s not a loss  
We should be the guys they cry over

[Refrain: Brando with Bosx1ne]  
So let them chase after you  
So they know, we’re not just easy to say goodbye to  
So trust me, there are plenty more out there  
There are only a few of us handsome ones left in this world

[Verse 4: Bullet D, Skusta Clee]  
Didn’t I tell you, don’t repeat it?  
You’re so stubborn, my friend (Hey, hey)  
How many times has your heart been broken?  
You get angry when I tell you (Oh, yeah)  
Listen to me, I know what I’m saying (Oh, woo)  
The moves of a girl who will lead you on (Girl, no)  
So if I were you, I’d stop it ('Stop it)  
That person isn’t worth it for you (Yeah)  
But you ignored it just because of words  
They’re good at using you without you noticing  
That’s just how things are nowadays  
I have nothing more to say, you know what I mean

[Chorus: Bosx1ne]  
Forget about that, come on, come on, have some fun  
Don’t get too crazy, just laugh it off  
Problems with girls shouldn’t be taken to heart  
Let them chase after you, right?  
I told you, they’re all just playing games  
Once they’ve used you, they’ll suddenly disappear, oh-oh  
So don’t repeat the past, so don’t repeat the past

[Verse 5: Flow-G]  
Uhmm, mm-mm  
Don’t worry if she’s going to leave you  
Don’t stress because there are plenty more  
Just laugh it off instead of being foolish  
Until you get used to it, because that’s just how they are  
You might not know that it’s not just one  
You can count on your