**Translated Lyrics:**

Flip-D on the beat  
Panty Droppaz League  

[Verse 1]  
When I remember the days we spent together,  
Smiles and tears in my eyes, that’s how happy we used to be.  
The kind of moments when our eyes would meet,  
We’d smile at each other as if we were crazy.  
Making noise even when the surroundings were quiet,  
Even if there were complaints, we didn’t care at all.  
Those times when you were there, always showing up,  
Unexpectedly bringing surprises with you.  
So much joy, I just don’t want to show it,  
Because I’m okay as long as I’m with you.  

[Pre-Chorus]  
But now you’re gone, yet I know you’re happy,  
In my world, no one can do  
What you made me feel.  

[Chorus]  
So thank you for your love, your love,  
You’re always in my heart and mind, my mind.  
And I admit that I miss you, that I miss you (And I admit),  
To me, you’re still my baby, my baby,  
Even though you’re no longer by my side, by my side,  
I promise I’ll still pray for you, still pray for you.  

[Verse 2]  
Because I can’t take it anymore, love,  
I slowly miss you, love.  
No matter how many times they try to cheer me up,  
It’s still you that I want to kiss, love.  
I won’t accept not having you with me,  
When I hold you, it feels better than being married.  
Always there to support me in everything,  
Even if I lose myself, you’re always there.  
And if I could turn back time,  
I’d fix everything within seven months.  
Everything would heal in your wounded heart,  
One day, but then it suddenly rained (Yeah).  

[Pre-Chorus]  
Because you’re not here anymore, but I know you’re happy,  
In my world, no one can do  
What you made me feel, oh.  

[Bridge]  
I know it’s my fault, oh, I wasted it,  
It’s unlikely you’ll give me another chance,  
It’s unlikely you’ll open up to me, oh-ohh.  
No matter how hard I try, what if you don’t want to?  
What can I do? What can I do?  

[Chorus]  
So thank you for your love, your love,  
You’re always in my heart and mind, my mind (Heart and mind).  
And I admit that I miss you, that I miss you,  
To me, you’re still my baby, my baby (My baby),  
Even though you’re no longer by my side, by my side (By my side),  
I promise I’ll still pray for you, still pray for you (Yeah, yeah, yeah).  

[Outro]  
So thank you for your love, your love,  
You’re always in my heart and mind, my mind (Ayy).  
And I admit that I miss you, that I miss you,  
(I miss you, no, no, no, ohh).  
To me, you’re still my baby, my baby (My baby),  
Even though you’re no longer by my side, by my side,  
I promise I’ll still pray for you, still pray for you.  
(Ayy, no, no, no, ohh)  
Hey!