**Translated Lyrics:**

(Beep, beep!)  
(Beep, beep!)  
"Hello?"  
"Mira, Eddie...!"  
"Hey..."  
"What's up, man?"  
"Tego, man, what are you doing, bro?"  
"Well, bro, just reminding you that I'm wrapping up the album to see when we can do our thing."  
"Well, whenever you want! What are we going to do?"  
"Well, you know what people are waiting for, man..."  
"Oh yeah, they want war."  
"Alright then, let's do it, you know..."  
"Let's crush them again, screw it."  
"Again, let's take them out again."  
"Alright."  
"Okay, we'll check in."

A couple of pigs want to profit off my work  
But they’re useless, that’s why their world is cold  
They asked for me to whip them  
And I’m going to break them so hard they’ll need a Kotex  
I enjoy leaving a company in mourning  
And their artists have gone dumb  
My lyrics leave them in shock  
And even though I don’t have a Glock  
I make them jump like Tony Hawk  
And I couldn’t care less  
Say whatever you want about me  
Neither you nor your nonsense keeps me up at night  
Your lyrics are cheap  
Your flow older than a hippie  
That’s what happens when you mix wires with the crippy  
The other one is snitching on all of Puerto Rico  
And even in a video, he’s betraying a guy  
You can front all you want  
Because, man, I even saw Superman in a wheelchair  
What you lack, see, is a vagina  
Well, you already have long hair and bigger breasts than Taína*  
Don’t anticipate victory  
Because you’ve run into the biggest duo since Michael Jordan and Scottie Pippen

Hey, what you got doesn’t faze me  
(It doesn’t shock or provoke me!)  
In the lyrical game, they’ve gone crazy  
(For being focused on guys like fools!)  
Hey, what you got doesn’t faze me  
(It doesn’t shock or provoke me!)  
In the lyrical game, they’ve gone crazy  
(For being focused on guys like fools!)

I didn’t need the beef to get on  
But if they threw shots, now they have to listen to me  
Get off the trip  
There’s no more chapter in your character  
And your Mercedes has erased mileage three times already  
I’m who I want to be  
I have nothing to lose  
I have what it takes  
And it won’t be possible  
Play with me  
Shoot me some rounds and let me live  
And you’ll crap your pants  
Humility doesn’t work with these piglets  
They get confused  
They’re morons  
And loudmouths with guts  
They can’t  
But what do they want  
If they don’t have  
They’ve been in the same mess since DJ Eric  
I don’t front with someone else’s stuff  
(Haha!)  
With these two, they aimed  
Others almost did  
Your experience, I crush it on my worst day  
Without anomaly  
Argue if you don’t trust  
Treat each one with the flaw they have  
Show me  
Your lyrics to me are firewood  
So what do you think we’re talking about here?  
They massacred a thousand MCs, but not me  
Too much for you  
Hey, what you got doesn’t faze me  
(It doesn’t shock or provoke me!)  
In the lyrical game, they’ve gone crazy  
(For being focused on guys like fools!)  
Hey, what you got doesn’t faze me  
(It doesn’t shock or provoke me!)  
In the lyrical game, they’ve gone crazy  
(For being focused on guys like fools!)

Throw everything you have  
Bite your lips  
Don’t pretend  
Your house with your tongue twister  
I take things depending on who comes  
Not from the pigs of Jenga-Jenga

Hey  
Instead of Jenga-Jenga, they should have done yengue-yengue  
Or auditions for the Fat Boys of Merengue  
Making jokes about the Latin Grammys  
Your name wasn’t even mentioned in the dressing room

And we continue in danger of extinction  
(Because there are no singers like us in the area!)  
Whoever messes with Eddie or Calderón  
(Ends up changing their sex like Verona!)  
Those bastards are dirtier than the Navy  
Talking trash about each other, and even about Pina  
I don’t fight to be cool with my label  
In fact, screw the beef

And to be clear, Tego, I wasn’t going to beef with those fat ones  
But you know that silence means consent  
And they really are clowns, always with the same old story