**Translated Lyrics:**

[Intro]  
(We drop bars) 24 hours  
(I flow funky) 24 hours  
(I fight the battle) 24 hours  
I don’t care how you act  
(We drop bars) 24 hours  
(I flow funky) 24 hours  
(smoking hash and weed) 24 hours  
(I fight the battle...)

[Verse 1: W. Cheff]  
This is sacred like grandma and grandpa  
Between the lights and shadows, Caravaggio  
Because in my neighborhood, the rooster wakes us up  
Take it away from number 10, R. Baggio  
I’m still trapped by my bars, now they’re iron bars  
The revenge is on the field, I crush whales  
Like Sriracha, I make you sweat, I keep the rebound  
Always sharp knives, boy, always on point  
Hash and weed all day... Yah!  
Because this stuff doesn’t need a dealer  
I don’t even show off, just a little sparkle  
Tell your girl and tell your neck  
Nothing at all, you’re the crumbs that fall to the ground  
If you’re trash... down the drain  
Nothing at all, but I spit it out first  
There will always be that crap just like there will always be cops

[Bridge]  
24 hours  
There will always be that crap just like there will always be cops  
24 hours  
There will always be that crap...

[Verse 2: El Aitor]  
I’m painting on the wall of your fucking chalet  
Did you want A-I-T? Don’t worry, I bring a pallet  
I see a lot of Nikes for so little foot  
They’re harvesting with nineties, I’m dancing tap  
I’m rapping to you, you with Ozil’s eyes  
Looking at me like you’re studying a fossil  
In shock therapy because he doesn’t understand why  
He makes what’s easy for me so difficult  
Big shots, Arkano is a damn harlequin  
Harlem Globetrotters against Orlando with Shaquille  
Just court jesters against super MCs  
Sorry to cut you off, it’s because I don’t know what you’re doing here  
I don’t see O.T. galas, explain to me how it was  
That they no longer want Cecilio, the rest of "Hombres G"  
I don’t know the name of Shakira and Piqué’s baby  
Nor what María was doing with that loser José  
A-I-T (what?)

[Bridge]  
(24 hours) A-I-T  
(24 hours) You know it, dude (You know it)  
(24 hours) Ucronía Loops, ClashRooms Records

[Verse 3: Slykid]  
My doctor told me not to worry  
But I still see zombies when I go down to the store  
I shoot like Martha because I always had  
Revealing dreams like Dale Cooper  
Their stuff is weak, they’re on a cloud  
Almost an hour has passed and this isn’t lifting me  
I didn’t know her, but she got me into the club, hey!  
She had style, said her name was Uve  
Underrated, Jackie Brown  
And you’re there setting up the circus because you’re a clown  
I don’t let it bark, I knock it down in the first round  
Underground, my dad smoking Royal Crown  
Look how fresh, just painted  
There was no alternative, ended up in a brawl  
If you’ve got something on you, take advantage and leave  
You won’t spot a secret agent even with a bracelet  
Slykid!

[Bridge]  
(24 hours) Slykid  
(24 hours) Ucronía Loops  
(24 hours) W. Cheff  
(24 hours) yeah, yeah

[Verse 4: Ossian]  
Five minutes or two hours per joint  
That new weed reminds me of high school  
They plant the seed, I savor the fruit  
I smoke freshly risen, even in mourning  
I’ve been in expensive places, also bankrupt  
That’s why I know the game goes on, the ball rolls  
And even if I’m short of breath, I told you once  
Without this, I’m nobody, like Diego without the ten  
I have much to gain and little to lose  
I’m from Cobasa, you’re more from Bel Air  
We drink and paint the building  
You call the cops and listen to Don Patricio  
I’m for respect, I’m not looking for any record  
40 seconds like one of McGregor  
I always measure up even coming in cold  
I throw big chunks, you better do it empty

[Outro]  
(24 hours)  
(24 hours)  
(24 hours)  
(24 hours)  
(We drop bars