**Translated Lyrics:**

[Intro: KAROL G]  
The one who told you that an emptiness can be filled with another person is lying  
It's like covering a wound with makeup: you can't see it, but you can feel it  
You left saying you got over me (Hey) and found yourself a new girlfriend (Girlfriend)  
What she doesn't know is that you're still (Auh) watching all my stories (Baby)  

[Chorus: KAROL G]  
Baby, what’s up? Didn’t you say you were so into her? (-ito')  
What are you doing looking for me? If you know I don’t repeat my mistakes (Eh, baby)  
Tell your new girl that I don’t compete for men  
She should stop throwing shade, at least I had you looking good  

[Verse 1: Shakira]  
Seeing you with the new girl hurt (Hurt)  
But I'm already focused on my own  
What we lived is forgotten  
And that’s what has you offended  
Life has even gotten better for me  
Around here, you’re no longer welcome  
I saw what your girlfriend sent me  
That doesn’t even make me mad, I just laugh, I just laugh  

[Verse 2: KAROL G & Shakira]  
I don’t have time for what doesn’t contribute, I’ve changed my direction  
Making money like it’s a sport  
Filling up my bank account, the shows, the parking, and the passport (Hey)  
They say I’m tougher now (Yes)  
Now you want to come back, it shows, mmm, yes  
Wait a minute, am I an idiot? (Ah)  
Did you forget I’m with someone else?  
And that La Bichota is too much for you  

[Chorus: Shakira & KAROL G]  
Baby, what’s up? (Up), didn’t you say you were so into her? (Ah)  
What are you doing looking for me? (Hey) If you know I don’t repeat my mistakes  
Tell your new girl that I don’t compete for men  
She should stop throwing shade, at least I had you looking good (Shakira, Shakira)  

[Verse 3: Shakira & KAROL G]  
You left, and I leveled up  
Better, tougher, on another level  
Getting back with you? Never (No), you were bad luck  
Because now blessings are pouring down on me  
And you want to come back, I figured as much  
Liking my photos  
You’re looking for food outside  
While I said it was monotonous  
And now you want to come back, I figured as much  
Liking my photos (My photos)  
You look happy with your new life  
But if she only knew you’re still looking for me  

[Chorus: KAROL G & Shakira]  
Baby, what’s up? (Up), didn’t you say you were so into her? (Ah)  
What are you doing looking for me? (Hey) If you know I don’t repeat my mistakes (Hey)  
Tell your new girl that I don’t compete for men (Shake it)  
She doesn’t have a good hand, and at least I had you looking good  

[Outro: KAROL G & Shakira]  
(O-O-Ovy On The Drums)  
My love, you drifted too far  
And from afar, I can’t see, baby  
TQM, but TQG, hahaha  
Barranquilla, Medallo