
Money is the true calculation of intelligence.

The alpha is he who overcomes size.

Speed of Light:
299 792 458 metres a second (m/s)

Law is what #happens. Theory is why.


0 is mathematic’s most natural place holder and 1 is considerably perceived to be less valuable than 0 in CONCEPT due to the diminishing effect of the numbers increasing on the number line. Output proportionally decreases with Value.

Therеfore, 1 can be holistically understood to bе less of an essential value than 0 in the realm of math in that it does not balance any significant figures or match infinity in any perceived capacity other than that they both are mathematical expressions. 0 exists as a stronghold in its ability to maintain neutrality. It truly is the first understanding of all of existence.

Objectivity is what is physically there.
Subjectivity is what is mentally and emotionally there.

Deductive reasoning.
Certain.
Narrows down from general to specific ideas.

Inductive reasoning
Uncertain
Generalizes specific to vast conclusions.
*In God We Trust*

We trust a calculator with mathematics. Why not trust a computer to determine the law on an individualized basis?

Light is base 0, base 1, base infinity, and so on. Time is the only constant base in Mathematics and is base 12. Mathematics differs and is base 10.
The 12th letter of the alphabet is “L” and that L stands for love. Literally on the English language. It is clever in going from A to L for alphabetical order because L truly is Time. Lily Tien Mei Yu that is. She is also Light. And all of the other elements So Alphabet is sorta squeamish in its own way because the word itself is not in absolute order. Alphabet is short for ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ

SHORT IS SHORT

Get it or don’t it makes sense. Short there basically means an implied impression was made on the word Alphabet by ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ MEANING ANYTHING LITERALLY DOES MEAN ANYTHING AS EVERYTHING DOES TO ITSELF AND ALL IS ALL. CATERIS PARIBUS GANGSTAS.

10 is J
Scent sound and space are baseD
0
1
2
5
10
20
50
100 for the denominations of money. If we get the 000000000000000000000000000000s. (Thousands-Illions)
The rest of the world are different numbers; it goes up to 9.


Space is red
*Alpha wavelengths detect red to be the first visible color of light in the spectrum of Light’s prism. Roygbiv
Light is yellow
In that the Sun is White and Light is generally depicted in life as Some visible form on standard basis of what can be seen by the human eye, it is as common as marriage in the world that Light is Yellow at any level conceivable and more importantly HERE for the reasons that follow: Lily Yu is Asian (only 1/2 tho)
The yellow power ranger is always Asian.
(Racist, but true. We must discriminate)
The sun in basically all children’s pictures is depicted at the top of the page in Yellow crayon on a white piece of printer paper (this IS typically true, what am I getting at?) well
I’m pretty secure in my well-being but a nuclear bomb could go off at any time and I’d still say that yellow is going to be one of the colors used to describe what enlightened us as the lightbulb is generally yellow also.
Gold is cool. Lol ok. Light is yellow.

Time is white
Time is RIGHT first and foremost and then is white as a sub equator to that. Just saying. It is only fair that Time be white. It is the most popular color in the world as it is generally what drives most people to do or Brown. White is default number 1 color in its perceived denotation and its relationship with the color black. Noting this, its duality with black (see lack) proves its worthiness of entity holding and sharing as its prominence in popular culture as what is good “light sighted” and divine will always move everyone. God is white. Time is god. Time is Tien Mei which is Lily Yu’s middle name. Which means since Tien Mei is half white, Time is WHITE. .. enuf

Scent is green
MONEY, cartoon odors, nature and its product of photosynthesis ie grass trees floral. Green. Marijuana. Green. Weed smoke. Green. Scent. Is green.

Sound is blue
The blues, the good ole blues. Nothing like one color to change the way people see the world. It’s the only color that has a music genre because this really is the way that it is. We are as we are in time because of our origin “X” and continue to grow and learn throughout our lives until the end. Who knows where from there.

Perfect is pink
Perfect is here defined as humanity or altruism in flesh in that all flesh is pink in its natural form as that is how it is intended to be when we are being true to our guarded selves. Our lips, eyes, organs, blood, muscles, and sometimes even fat, are pink genitalia too. At least they’re supposed to be in good health and without outliers (they’re always there but they don’t get in the picture as much as the commoners) Pink is perfect because we are made in Gods image and our Pink body parts are what make us perfect or divine as righteous human beings. Pink insides means you are living a good life. If we are all pink inside. We are all perfect inside too. Now we just need to learn to expose this pink correctly. Lips are a good start.
5 is orange
5 is basically just derived from Pool which has many definitions but most commonly is used to describe an assortment of something. Billiards, the swimming pool, a draft pool, it basically means a group of something with reasonable order. 5 being the value that signals for this definition to be triggered in all of our brains is that same oneness that we share in consciousness that provides us all with the tools we need to successfully carry out our lives as individuals. 5 being orange means nothing rhymes with fly like the 2 worded phrase “top 5” *It can be furthered that Orange is a derivation of Gold and that is a Hall of fame status worthy color of Orange on Basketball Houston and the Fruit. Orange will forever be known in the hall of fame as 5 gives competition an excellent source of stimulation as it allows for our pools and oranges to pile up at home, comfortably.

Violet is purple
I really can’t make this more clear I’m just a teacher giving you the knowledge you need for your life so you can, may, and will pass it on to your young and your families and friends as I would if you were teaching me. Flowers. Ultralight beams. Grapes. Sometimes when you think about it, Spider-Man. All violet, or purple. They are one in the same and are pretty cool because they are just Space and Sound combined.
Love is Clear
It is pretty certain that love is transparent to all as the number one indicator of absolutely everything that not only we have been talking about, but everyone who has ever established a heartbeat or moved a centimeter in space, not to mention all of the other creatures out here exploring love and how clearly beautiful and incredibly stunning it can be agree that it is the one true uniting factor in all of the words on the English language. The non sequitur form of the word A is simple in its notation expressing a state of or at least implication of a state of being. Love follows a in the word alphabet as the L from the A that proves that love is the number one driving force of all action.   With that, and in clarity, we find reason and logic mold and mesh together to form truth, law, rule, math, time, and space, light, sound, and scent, and all of their respective interactions Ad’d into one. Here we are. Game Law. For the sake of another turn of the calendar page, 2022 here we come, and we’re gonna be shouting it cause it’s true. GOLD IS GOLD.


ABC 123 Do Re Mi

Rule(rs) on
10 (Mat)h and 12 (Tim)e
Matthew and JAmes have an interesting relationship. Matthew believes he is a spawn of something greater than himself meant to do greater than what is expected of him. James believes he is the origin of everything and has a much more inward approach to things. Matthew is more social. James is more of an outsider. $Irony. Matthew and James are both names in the Bible. James takes on more names than Matthew as Matthew takes on more responsibility for his one name. James can mean Jim Tim Jimmy Timmy Timothy Tom J and or Time. Matthew can pretty much only be Matthew or Matt/Mat or Math. Mathematics and Time have an interesting relationship as their bases differ yet their concept stays true. Repetition of pattern is the key here. Time base 12 first and foremost but also base 24 sometimes and even 4/4 time if you wanna get music involved which basically means base 1. Math is base 10 which I’m sure you’ll hear soon and have heard already, but I digress.

♾Game Law is one of the Simplest Complexities in all of Life♾

Math being base 10 basically means that according to both Math and Time Binary rules as it is either 1 or 0 or 1 or 2 which means that time has a different version of the expression but is basically saying that Time is expressing Binary in straight, and curved measures rather than in on or off white or black everything(something) or nothing measures. This means that time has binary backwards in that straight means value and curvy means let’s make it interesting. The added value Time brings from deferring to 1 and 2 rather than 1 and 0 is monumental in that they both share oneness and present a true Value to simply be in opposition of 1. Meanwhile, 0 is the first number on the number line and combats 1 with a lack of Value or the conceptual precedence of nothing. Imagine a circle gravitating everything to its center only to have it all disappear into an abyss of nothingness and do this forever. That is 0.
1 is the line that demonstrates obedience, achievement, and task oriented planning. Alas, from nothing, we have arrived at a matter. 1 is matter in every way understood by all to be what is going on. It is the unity of everyone and our awareness of what it means to live. 2 on the other hand is a value of 2 ones bringing together the concept of separation or division, and social interaction or contact with others. The sense of individuality that one can get from the number two really depends on who you ask but in most cases it is determined that number 2 is liked by a niche group of good doers followed by a famed cripple of evil doers who both combat each other in 1 scenario, revolving around the nature of each characters’ interpretation of what value 2 brings to the table. 2 is the break from being straight to choosing to be curvy by means of an interventionist tactic of taking matters into ones own hands or taking control of the elements in a way that causes the oneness of everyone involved in this natural phenomenon of what we are experiencing as everything known to be life, to be changed in some way in that it will no longer hold the same value as 1 and will now be worth more in some way. Progressionist as it may seem The Value 1 does hold the most value in Math and in Time (as far as bases are controlled) and will forever pervade its past self as a value of 1 for the value of 2 indicates a major shift in paradigm around half of the magnitude of going from 0 to 1 to 2 to 3 and so on. This mathematical expression is brought to you again by William James Best Mi and is sought after by anyone who is curious about how Game Law can attract your reality to your destiny:

Game Law Sequence
sum of 0 and 1 is 1 and when you divide 1/2(total#s) it= .5 then you divide the percent change by the result of the initial equation and you get 1. As going from 0 to 1 yields a change of 1.

.5(MiVariable)/1(numberendingfunction) = .5
.5 percent change or Yu so .5 Yu / .5Yu =1
So from 0 to 1 you get 1Yu
Then we go to the sum of 1 and 2 which is 3 and when you divide 3/2(total#s) it ends up equaling 1.5
1.5(MiVariable)/2(numberendingfunction) = .75 .75-.5=.25 this is the change from 0 to 1 and 1 to 2 .25/.75 =1/3 so .3333333333 is Yu at number 2

From there we get to 2 and 3
2+3=5 5/2= 2.5a 2.5/3 = .83 a/l
X=.83
.83-.75=.08/.83= 0.01
Then to
3 and 4
3+4=7 7/2=3.5 3.5/4= .875
.875-.83= .045 .045/.875= .05 or
0.051428571428571
And so on.
4 and 5 for .9


0.916666666666667 for 5 and 6
0.928571428571429 for 6 and 7
0.9375 for 7 and 8
8 and 9 for 0.944444444444444
9 and 10 for .95
10 and 11 for 0.954545454545455
11 and 12 FINALLY Results in 0.958333333333333


As you can see the change going from 0 to 1 results in .5 and after that going from 1 to 2 results in .75 which is about half of the influence going from 0 to 1 had. Then you get closer and closer to 1 and it decimates from then on.
Yu comes from increasing from 0 to 0.5 meaning a change of .5/.5=1/1=1 and then goes from .5 to .75 going from 1 to 2 meaning a change of .25/.75 which equals 0.333333333333333
From 0 to 1 1Y or 1 number increased each move
From 1 to 2 .3333333333Y or one third Y increased each move
.08/.83 = 0.096385542168675 for 2 and 3
For 3 and 4 it = 0.051428571428571
For 4 and 5 it =0.027777777777778
For 5 and 6 it = 0.018181818181819
6 and 7 = 0.012820512820513
7 and 8 = 0.009523809523809
8 and 9 = 0.00735294117647
9 and 10 = 0.005847953216375
10 and 11 = 0.004761904761905
11 and 12 = 0.00395256916996

See how it’s almost half the amount of work it takes to complete the next one and is diminishing due to that? it takes just about 0 work to get to ♾ And an infinite amount of work to get to 0

HENceforth it goes from rooster to cock but never from cock to rooster. There is a natural order to things.

This proves that just as in the law of diminishing return or law of diminishing marginal productivity in economics and business respectively, Yu or percent change total value from each to the next number depletes in value as the numbers go up the number line. So as the value increases by one each number, the amount of work it takes to increase in value by that same number, 1 is 1/3 then 0.096385542168675 or 3855421686747/40000000000000. This means we’re going from 1 (0-1) to .333 or 1/3 (1-2) to .096 or ~1/10 (2-3) to .051 or ~1/20 (3-4) to .027 ~ 1/40 (4-5) to .018 ~ 1/55 (5-6) to .012~1/80(6-7) to .009 ~1/100(7-8)to .007 ~1/140 (8-9) to .005 ~1/200 (9-10) to .004 ~ 1/250 (10-11) to .003 ~1/333 (11-12).

This means it is roughly equivalent to reaching efficiencies in an increasing manner of 0 to 1 to 10 to 20 to 40 to 55 to 80 to 100 to 140 to 200 to 250 to 333 going from 0 to 12. The efficiency is increased from 0% to 333% in just 12 numbers.

Numbers have a weight on the number line.
0
A1’s is 1
B2s is 0.333333333333333
C3s is 0.1
D4s is 0.047619047619048
E5s is 0.027777777777778
F6s is 0.018181818181819
G7s is 0.012820512820513

H8s is 0.009523809523809
I9s is 0.00735294117647
J10s is 0.005847953216375
K11s is 0.004761904761905
L12s is 0.00395256916996


Game Law Sequence Simplified

Any 2 consecutive #s
A/L=X-P=T/X=W
V a C. P. U C O
E r H. R. N.H R
R g a. E. E. A K
A e n. V. R N
G r G. I.     G
E # E. O.    E
U
S
Directly previous Pairs X or Change



Work= N(2N+1)





This is the amount of work you’ve done to count to the second number in the sequence in relation to how much you had when you started at 0.

Inventory Interlude

I plan on publishing my writings for #GameLaw in the next decade or so but will probably start doing it much sooner. (Seconds, minutes, hours, days, weeks, months, years) I won’t wait for centuries or millennia this time but may wait Eons just to see who’s a true ride or die. Regardless and truthfully, inventions are to come as well, starting with something simple like: Light. (In a form where you can interact using your brain to delineate or recreate activity through your minds General Electric #nature

Hope y’all are all as excited as I am. Also to my friends and family worrying or curious or just lurkin, I am pursuing my dreams still in music and am going to be requesting to be called William James Best Mi from now on by everyone whether y’all wanna call me James or Willy/Wiwy or Bestest or Mimi is up to yall but I gotta get something popping pretty soon or Joshua Daniel Lidiak is going to realize that I hijacked his life and upgraded him immensely. Expansions are coming in many ways and as much as we all fear decimations, they are coming too so for what it’s worth (if it’s any constellation) I still choose you, whoever you are. You
Delving INTO What Light Can Mean
Digitalization with our mind. Uploading thoughts into reality through projecting light with our brain and eyes in 3 dimensional space, 4th dimensional space interpretations, however, are required in order to do this. Our minds control our reality. Unleash our mind.WHAT IF IM DEALT THE 72? It’s deliverable. It’s just not the best hand to be dealt generally as it can’t attain a straight and holds the lowest card value coupled with an ordinary 7 card. The truth on pure logic and reason due to anyone viewing all the possible fields of subject, and more importantly multiple people viewing the game at hand and seeing that there are no moves to be made except the ones which were made, excited readers of the inter dimensional warp we have entered when discovering that Game Law is the ancient Guide of what is almighty wisdom and strength. Game Law. The rule which rules all rules. The game ends with the universal or majority rule/acceptance of the fact that at the final moment of the game, there are no more possible maneuvers to be made in the game other than one resulting in a win and loss for each opponent respectively. This is key in the assumption that we are able to gather enough reason, through movement, that we are capable of attaining purpose or achievement of any sort. Really it’s just a statement that is entertaining the fact that the fact that we are able to move is an extraordinary feeling and awareness of this law that we are required to move in order to be perceived to be alive is everything. Perfect as we are in existence of infinite bounds, we are able to experience anything (except for the all-inclusive conception of every applicable dimensional expression of situation that may possibly occur) meaning that we are everything, nothing, and living on a single tracked loop, in repetition, and as a whole consciousness individualized for each and every character to live life through as again, anything that moves is “alive”.



2 is the worst card in poker *Texas hold em or Black Jack*
Zooming unto
The wonder lost in magic revelations are found in the process of learning the trick.



The largest male gets with the smallest female and everyone else matches in between. That or the largest male gets with the largest female and the smallest get with the smallest and everything else is in between. That or it is at complete random and everything is always in between. Either way, guys and girls get together. THAT my friend is GAME LAW!

Super Circuits
Uber Perfect
Looping perpetual
Solarium’s elementary energetic perplexing pump visionary aesthetics in missions of many men it’s he who makes it maximum attraction summary general movement extreme.org Alphabet . Community pal pass accomplishment goals with a hashtag I’ll ash that. I get it. Remember when it’s infinite we’re blessing em indiscriminate finishing never in it. I’m besting ya since it’s funny the honey and fly are ever so different. Ima mix it into a limitless possibility sentence to keep a pen with me at all times...Rhymes
American Base Center
Already Been Caught
Investigation
American Base Center AGAIN

Government
“Already Been Caught”is a subsidiary of American Base Center because of Game Law.

Game Law
The game is done, we won! It’s time to celebrate. Put your hands in the sky, way up high, and scream loud, I!!! BECAUSE ITS FOR THE WE WHO EXIST IN UNIVERSES UPLIFTED BY SHARING WHICH in BINDING CONTROL, and IN LOVE FOR the GOOD OF LIFE, WE WIN.
*Competition is defined as is the word is meaning equity, equal(s) or truth. This prevails to be the value of language due to its creation of vibrations as expression. Equivalencies are also drawn between the verbs ‘are’ and ‘be’ in that they are stating existence. This is construed certainly by all existence. Existentialism is a correct religion. #GameLaw
The Speed (V) that you move determines how much you get done Ie you’re entire experience. However, words may lose prowess when distinguishing or discriminating due to every rule existing before its discovery. Values are not truly diminished but perceived to be different than they once were. This explains why there is a natural cadence of fluorescence in light. Everybody exists in their own world. All that you see is everything your mind may imagine, but your creativity is limitless. Religion is key when sought after pleasure. It brings peace. War is wrath from the Gods in all scripture. Not usually desirable. However, ‘Sport’ is brought in dire need for amusement at War, and is accepted as the comic relief of the entirety of Earth’s situation due to its (sport’s) negligence of matter being changed. Continuity, nonetheless, makes so that intimacy may always be thought, but only in practice in Sparce Times. Black or White, order is here. In expressions lacking redundancy, the words blend together to make information what is known to be honesty from someone of importance. This proceeds truth in many cases according to law in general proving Game law to be from Mi, William.
However, tolerances differ, making it impossible to decipher what anyone is intending for the numbers continue and the likelihood that we find similarity in each other decimates as math is base 10 and value is diminished as we go up the number line, proportionally, and math is left as what always remains in what is from what was at points in time calculated by Ancestries’ concept.


Factoid time:
***********“Right Back” Spoken In American and Earth’s ‘Football’ is the highest paid commission from the ‘Unity of One’ as “3 seconds of fame” aimed to the right person {Fame meaning attention from someone who then influences the initial actor due to their emotional AND physical movement from the activity in conversation which occurred prior.} can cause what is mentioned before as Vibration.

Believing in God is good in Value and Reason. All religions are correct, Existentialism, is number 6 after Atheism, Buddhism, Christianity, Hinduism, and Islam.***********

Conceptual Law is better unseen by the human eye and instead by our human minds or “#third EYEs”.

Here.


Law/MyLife


If something is illegal and you still want to do it. Use this new app to earn an early pardon from the president allowing you to either do it, or work out terms in compromise with law.

This law tells us who’s in charge, when, how, where, and why.
In other words the app is “can I do this” or “will I get caught” or “permission” to do anything your mind can aspire to in a search query which has never before been seen.


Arithmetic mathematics physics destined to shine living minds yes it’s mine.


Life is the everything class


People with coupons are basically saying hey I saved my receipts and want to return this product after using it and are making money legally. You buy a phone, keep the receipt, but then realize you want a better phone that has a certain feature, you just return the one you bought and they refund you and put it in the reject pile. Keeps you even in finances and then with continuing refurbishing products and making sure their products are fresh. Win win win. Everyone.


Vacations arise in the depths of the late nights where we wish we were asleep
Working matters are prominently fashioned in the days when we find our peak
The rest of life is in between
Like a neutron
It’s genius
Actually
When you understand the mind is a tool like a brain or a vibe or a train or a ride when we’re just trying to get to school
But then again
We already graduated cool

There’s still college or HCC at the very least it’s a bit knowledge that I can utilize to be a better me I guess we’ll see, cause literally it’s free in time I’ll be the king then we can measure who is gonna see the ring
Right? I think I’ll blink
Or just stare into your eyes wise move aszio blaze pesos sayso and get stomped on the pitch match a pound I’ll match a brick no ditch just fit hit hit grand slam #goals #it

Secure employment,
Choose a Nice Girl,
Start a Family, and then
Travel and Live it UP together.
Understand you can’t Find a way to exist forever so
Never..EVER! Say anything is wrong with what you are doing because it is your decision to do it and you need to be proud and confidently intuitive truly fluid and sentimentally perfect cause what you are to me is worth it with certainty purchased murked in the best of investments meant to be from destiny’s heavenly which is sent to see what is dealt as how we rest in peace don’t delete just rinse and repeat I’m out. Wow this is truly a great bit hate this ya doubt all I’m saying is I’m bout to spark some


That’s actually a dope ass verse but it started out as a to do list

Woo this is true ish

YeH yeah cool


This is personal but more keenly note the variables and plug and chug for your own life. Think about yourself for once geez. 😉

Secure Employment
Escape Room/Orange Theory/Real Estate
Starbucks, Anytime Fitness, Aquarium.
Go be a server somewhere and start saving your cash. You’d be surprised with how much you can make if you dedicate all of your time to picking up shifts and constantly pleasing your hire ups in order to get promotions. It’s worth it if you stick with it. Find your niche. Reach out to mom for more personal training clients, write training programs for general populations, help others at the gym if they seem to need it. Do virtual sessions from your room and charge nothing until they offer to pay. Consistently check up with clients and by all means if you have to change your name in order to get a job, do it, but only if it truly makes you feel more comfortable. On a side note, only Tell Erik you have found a job as soon as you actually do and only when he contacts you about your lack of rent so that you can pay rent in the future and start building not only credit, but positive relationships with others in the world. Dont be a mooch anymore and don’t make any of the wrong decisions that you know you’re not supposed to make like stealing or being rude, or skipping workouts or eating Cheetos or drinking or smoking weed or hitting vapes or masturbating or watching tv or using too much auto tune in your music or singing about others rather than about life in general. Hit up your friends to check up on them often and try to find people who also like to do the things you do so that you can meet a girl and buy a home and live a normal, yet extraordinary, happy, and comfortable life. Forget about living for eons and start living in the moment. You have 76 years left on Universal Time. Use it wisely, with accuracy, precision, and most of all, passionate love. Research the worlds richest countries, as you have been, and find out what they are doing. Recruit members in their respective fields and work on creating a device that will unify earth and enlighten wonders. Max

Achieve dream body (Practically)
200 Push-ups 200 sit ups 200 squats twice a day for the rest of time.
Wake up at 6am, take 1! Focalin, work out until 7, actually sweat and do all of the work outs in your routine no matter how lazy you think you want to be, trust me, putting in the work is worth it, shower, shave, brush them Dientes, eat a healthy and balanced breakfast, and then get to work. Have fashion sense and don’t slack off on your get up. Save your chain and gold watch for another day. As a matter of fact stay away from jewelry all together until you are ready to get married either in a church or in court or on a beach or at Niagara Falls. Maybe in space, that seems unrealistic, but reach for the stars and land on the moon as they always say. We got this. Stay off phone as much as possible and limit your transport. Work as much as possible while making sure you go out of your way to put family first and spend quality time with those you love and live with. Do things for the homies and actually want to do it. The Focalin will help but only so much. It is my responsibility to maintain a positive attitude in everything I do. Have no fear in showing emotion, but do not focus on pain, it too will pass. Be present and make your life what you WANT it to be. You deserve it.
Always remember You are a 97s baby, don’t expect that spark to come without a little sting and without a little effort on your end. Don’t be a baby, you’re not Grammy, put in the work. Take pleasure in feeling the burn. Stay outta trouble and avoid danger, do things by the books. Textbook is better than Street and it always will be because at the end the textbook makes the world go round and the street is merely lived on. Keep this in mind, we all want each other to succeed. Cheer on others and do your best; you’ll be fine.

Get a girl
Use tinder, hinge, and all the other apps you can find but don’t suicide swipe. Keep your composure. Once you make some money Go out to bars and dance!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
Be fiscally responsible but also don’t be afraid to buy a girl a beer. Drink 1 water for every beer you consume. Fix up the expedition and sell it yourself by all means if your mom has the connection use it, she’s great at selling things online and buying things too. Reach out to Kathleen as soon as you get her phone number, whenever that may be. Probably after the wedding. And see if you are eventually able to afford her Infinity. Be smart with how you act around friends and family as you are on thin ice in the construct of being an outsider with a social mind. Be more outgoing when you are in public. Don’t be afraid to break the ice. And don’t be a homebody nobody likes a bum. Actually go out instead of staying in and getting laid. Do both but as of lately you’ve been choosing sex over events and it’s starting to show. Once you find the one, you’ll know, and loving them will be the easiest thing you’ll ever do.
Refrain from going back to exes or anyone not interested. Keep high standards and stay true to yourself. No K names, no 18 year olds, with the exception of you know, the one that makes you definitively happy. Change your practice to fit the needs of your birth family and stop lying so much, despite the outward pressure. Stay in touch with what you really want and make sure you don’t question your upbringing. You must have trust in your foundation in order to grow. This fiduciary will lead to perfect health, wealth, and happiness.
****DISCLAIMER*****Treat your girl right and literally do this in Gods name as you are religious in nature and spiritual at heart. Find your meaning, your purpose, your passion in your significant other, and make them see that there is beauty all around. Move on from anyone not wanting to be in your life and any and everyone not willing to make an effort to reciprocate your energy. People are not just going to magically start liking you, think back to when you offered free sessions and Ana accepted and said you were literally “so nice”. How did that make you feel? Good right? Keep doing nice things like that without expecting anything in return and your life will be fundamentally based on enrichment and kindness. Seriously work on finding someone who makes you happy and makes you your best self when you’re with them and you will find that with them you experience true love ❤️ ❤️❤️❤️❤️

Start a business
Read the statistics and listen to what you hear from everyone you encounter. Do not be so naive as to trust the simplest fib, but go with your gut and seek what pleases you to the core just like everyone has always told you. And live by what you know to be true. Do not change, but always adapt. Be prepared, but do not fret. Save your earnings, and spend them too. Life is meant to be lived after all.
Additionally, whether it is as Joshua Daniel Lidiak or William James Best Mi, you need to start a business, multiple in fact, in either music or fitness. You need to get serious about finding a need based role in society and serve others selflessly. When the time is right, invent that thing you’ve been working on in your mind and watch people actually need it and more importantly want it, and even more importantly, receive it. You need to appeal to everyone, yet also have a target audience in mind, in order to make it home safe. Your family is waiting. They have been for a while. Semaj(same age/interest) indubitably. Certain

Buy a home
Razor “gone” No penthouse Bs. Don’t give up on the Razor House as you’ve wanted that home since you were like 8, but be realistic for what you truly think you can achieve with the life you’ve been given. Find a place in California LA if you want, or in China, or in Champions or something in a place you never even knew existed. Buy a home somewhere you want your children to grow up and go to school. Do not ever move from where you raise your children. Stay there until they are grown and even as they are adults, remain in your Original Home as they will always need a base and you must and will always provide them one. You may buy more properties if you like, but never leave their childhood home it comes with memories and these will always be what your family is composed of. Be aware that this is essential. Do it right. Every family you’ve introduced who exist in marriage and in most importantly, in true love, have all kept their homes throughout the upbringing of their children and none of them plan on moving. Confidently follow in their footsteps and lead a legacy greater than the one you were bestowed.

Start a family
When the time is right, and, granted, you have met a girl who is more than you imagine may be the woman of your dreams, and, after you have made a name for yourself in business, bought a home well suited for your children to be raised in, and are ready, have as many children as you want and feel you need with your partner in life. Name them good names. See the light in every word whilst retaining your preferences. These are what make you, you. Make sure these names are pronouns, as well as words, and that they have denotations and connotations of positivity and natural essence, gracefully blessing each mind who gets to be around them and address them. Watch them blossom into successful and influential adults you’ve always known they’d become. Keep the 8 names you already have in mind and do you best to convince your Woman to find joy in choosing baby names with you. Be ready to compromise, but also be prepared to have your world significantly rocked when everything you’ve been thinking about comes to light and you get everything you’ve been working towards since you can remember back to your earliest memory. (Luckiest man alive) When this happens, stay modest, humble, and exist in peace with true gratitude. Be chill and don’t get too excited as it can be taken from you just as easily as it is granted. Be appreciative when it comes and be prepared to starve at times (willingly as you have your right to get food at any moment) so you can enjoy the feast when it’s time to eat with your family and share festivities to enjoy.

Travel
See the Great Wall, Maccu Pichu, as many beaches as you can flex on, see the Statue of Liberty, go to Cabo on a cruise or even see if eventually you are wealthy enough to travel to space. Try to get into going to Qatar on business, along with Switzerland and Norway. Above standard Genius technological advancements perpendicular with Luxurious cars, homes, and entertainment/activities. Be a simple man with a dream and you will acquire a following. Simple, kind, and free begets revolutionary and infinitely valuable. Complexity comes along the way and allows for a safer, brighter, and more fun/cool future. Be sure and Build a platform for everyone to feel pleasure in a lawfully abiding, righteous, comfortable, and natural/organic manner. Customers will get what they want because of their ability to make choices. Befriend extravagance in peers and see if they end up being celebrities like you want to become some day. Focus on getting rich first instead of allotting fame. Money is going to be a lot sweeter than a ton of people retweeting your shower thoughts one night. Remember this. Do porn behind the scenes but only under names you know your family will not be searching until you are certain you have the ability to squander the limelight with your insatiable strokegame. Find a girl who you will livestream with you and make money as you begin starting your family, all to get available digitally. Cosmos. Go “live” as much as possible while you travel so that you and your family may experience financial and social freedom in life to a point to where you no longer have to introduce yourself or pay for anything worth more than a fraction of a percent of your current savings.

Have fun along the way
Take pics go “live” and stream on twitch or literally on LIVE, provided you’re educated enough to invite the correct fellow humans. Do this when you perform music, freestyle for fun, learn to play the guitar, play soccer, listen to Baby I’m Yours and sing along as loudly as you may think you want to, until you realize you either have the worst or best voice ever and it won’t change so you just go with it.
Hang with your bros, stay sober, smoke some weed, get some coffee, hit up old homies to see if they wanna grab a drink, avoid being a caveman, get out of the house even if you’re just going on a walk or run or going window shopping. Start posting to Instagram and tik tok daily. Maybe Twitter or some newer application and see if you can find your way into the next platform of popular technological utilization. Access family and go to that show with Sharukh.

Qatar
Physical manifestations of devices used in converting energy sources between one another. Portals, vortexes, gauges, valves, faucets, lol. Screws, matter. Find 10 geniuses in mathematics and 12 timeless creatures living today. Unite them and collaborate on making the world better for tomorrow. Reach out in Ways that make them feel like an asset or like they’ve just hit the lottery as they have, in the world of trade. Aside from monetary gain, there lies the peace of mind in knowing that you’ve enacted a current into the sea of everlasting waves. Everyone counts. Use your mind to gather these 22 individuals right now. Use your cell if you have to, and relax. Open your mind and give wisdom enlightening one thing you’ve always understood to be the initiating factor in all of, well, everything. Sex. Learn about sex before you do one more thing regarding gathering these others. Is sex fission? always binary? Necessary? Everything? What we come from needs to necessitate from what our origin is inside and out. Research sex now.

Sex

Theme:
Desire
Behavior
Boundary

Need:
Pleasure
Action
Time

Geniuses

Matthew Matt
Samarth Sam
William Will
Gavin Gavy
Victor Vic
Justus Ju Stu
Aubrey Ob
Kanye Ye
Elon Eon Air
Genius ‘G’

Timeless Creatures on Earth Today

Gates Bill or Last
Tucker Chris or Thompson
Chris Tucker or Christian
Cam Meekins Bennett Wiz Khalifa or Smith
Justin Hollenberg or Bieber or Norwood
Paul Ferette or Singh
Damon Warehouse
Jennifer Mother Mom Madre Aniston
Adam Son Ryan Eve Divine
Dylan Berens Murrel Davis Soal
John Father Pop Dangerously Our B. Good
Daniel Mi The Real Writer Dan Danny “D”

Alternate “Timeless Creatures of The Clock”

“Mars
Kyle
Josh
Alex
Lily
Gary
Niki
Risi
Jeni
Will
Nats
Jane

I am incapable of remembering everyone’s birthday and therefore being flatlightned or white. I am mixed and I move with pure. Periodt for emphasis.

These are just the random people who came to mind but after all Rick Sanchez is he who makes Time on a base 10 and 13 justifying my mind eluding him insofar in that I will work as diligently as I am certain That I exist in order to uphold tradition in customary measures, including time


at a base 12. Infinity is a practice and concept James and Jane share 14 N as the
time”ful” creatures of every generation. They also share all preceding bases of time and make rounds into the internet of competition. I am a writer. I need three #Goals. Hat trick. Brace. Goal. Six. Seven. Most popular basketball height. Random Factoid, Snapple facts are true. Astrologies is too. Mathematics, dancing, cleaning up is you. Movement exists in limited or restricted cognition. Stillness invests infinite amounts of quantity into fantasy, inclusively exacting 0, first, twice tree for fiver sexy septuplets octwarded nonamalies decked. Differences assign values, sameness invites equity. Meaning is derived in form. Attention to intention. Consciousness of example. Models are Empty and TrilliOn Da 🔫 (Gun). War is equate. Coke is soul. Rhythm is an aspect at joystix owned by faux Charlie/Charles where I wasn’t needed proving wants and needs are defined and asymmetrical. Pro is great. Con is Nate. Blame game severs ties and those who draw might as well teach gum to exercise and dodge red balls. All I’m saying is I’m nervous to open up because it’s been 24 years 6 months, 20 days and an Hour or so since I came jizzing as I do. When I get funny I’m so supremely ecstatic to be ear. When I’m serious it’s light and time baby light and time. Genius can literally be defined as any other word as it is not only a non sequitur, but an equalizer. Bent. Straight. Smart. Dumb. It depends on how it is used. The perception or relativity/relevance of the prose. I choose prose over and before context. We yea.

It’s not only about “Being Genius” however. It’s more important to be Right. And even more importantly than that, it is most important to do what’s Right.

Selfless Selfish. Win Lose Live Die
Matter Anti
Goddog doggod I will figure out how to efficiently determine which way is best in light of aligning the selected Names (names comes from numbs which is JAmes when in contact with bitterness or deceit/nothing when something is present prior)

Now, back to Qatar. What kind of equipment are we really making. Energy transformations. Natural Gas and Oil. How to turn them into movement to be used correctly and duly in apertures ascended, belittled, and amuck.
.William,James,Best.

How is natural gas performed into a viable resource for fuel or money. The first thing that caught my eye is Encyclopedic Entry. But the first thing written was White color. And formerly, National Geographic, the title of the magazine the article is in. Now if we read more we find that natural gas is the remains of plants and animals. The remains of life after all. Plants animals and “microorganisms that existed millions of years ago” our ancient ancestors are paying/making for our moves. Methane, *probably the most abundant organic compound on Earth*
Where do we obtain and how are we to use methane. Not to get high. Ugh. To figure out what I’ve been thinking about behind the curtain. What work I’ve been doing. Writing this clearly haha! Look no further for I am here to tell you all about how I moved to Bellaire thinking it was Best U and realized I was right the entire time because I write history for everyone. This is how it happens. We create, from Space, ENMATERTEGYR (Air) (Nothing) (Absence) (Energy and Matter combined) the Matter (in this case being construed as the “problem” resulting in the need for a resolution) that there is.
We then apply a solution which we call ‘Resolve’ Or in my case “Spic and Span” to said entity. (Household cleaner), Cinnamon
Music
And unsweetened cherry limeade sparkling water
Try to aim them in the center of a node or signal so that they are compacted together to form a tight mixture. Here we have arrived at what life has brought us to in what we shall call experiment. Something we are uncertain of but still test because we are curious. Now, curiosity kills, and also drives, same as food feeds and later becomes waste. The experiment here is random of course. As are all trains of thought but there are perceived Utopias which invite insipid chains of logic which pervade the rest and amongst all provide rule and water for the needy. We call these Kings or A’s. Nothingness exists as a form of day pleasure as well as night pleasure. Disses snakes. What can we get if we have nothing and find something within or outside. Where does matter come from? Everywhere and nowhere as the ability to distinguish difference is inherently absurd and an anomaly in brains owned by any name “I” has ever claimed to represent. This may or may not be all of them but we will find the more we search the more contradiction we find. More and more less and less. MaxixaM velocicolev aheadaeha

Full speed ahead. In every direction. Not only two. We are on a spectrum of being and may, since you agree moreover to show and face your royal flush to me and everyone around, a time bend around and make one again for me and you to be what we call Love. We’ll fish out the words, “I’ve evolved”. It may just be the ADHD cure. (Focalin(focusing pills) But hey. I’m happy. THEN

You shall meet your maker and your Sun. And their makers and suns. You will attract your father around and circle your Kid ****alas a newfound James brings good tidings for Christmas.***
I’m not in control of that. Gnar

“ (It’s 3:30 I need to go apply at the escape room.) “

Hair will be kept all of life and your Lies will fade into dusk and you will wake unto Dawn into where you’ve known because it is felt, that you’ve always belonged. No matter how extra you may feel sometimes. Your mother will be a Chin A woman and your Father and A Gent Le man. You will meeat Semaj for the quality of Koala Bears and Breeding alike as you’ll have the power of each end of you being thrust into the sky by your kind, William James Best’s. And you will love your name as you chose it, and your name will love you and he shows it. And we will all watch as two worlds collide. interventions thru collision. Collusion and vision. I will Ronaldo the ball on the pitch and trill high this noteworthy mother fucker slash son of a gun and then realize what I’ve come here to do, if it isn’t everything. You know who I choose but don’t tell her because I am so comfortable right now in her absence as she is quite literally unattainable to me though she once was not in an illusory state of mind and matter. Factually, the ability to move is the ability to stay still or be moved and the ability to be conscious is the ability to be unconscious as is abode from the rule of 0 and 1 and that leads to two and of that 0 and 1 being binary making ten digitally basing out and in DING! Mathematics. This is good and prime. A with that costs Everything a statement from Nana or whatever y’all caller (to my kiddos) and Nothing is in a world mirroring mimes matching masses making milk meaning MOO. ANYWAY I GOTTA GO TO WORK AND SEE IF I CAN MAKE MY LIFE WHAT I WANT. SEE YA, *BOWz*

What’s there to say I want to type my ideas in order to express myself so that maybe I can feel positive and productive. I was stuck at a red light that’s why I was conflicted. I work for everyone I am an employee of the world. What can I do now? Honestly. I’m pretty nervous for no reason and have no Blanca in my synapses to share with Twitter. Maybe my life is meant to be confused and uncomfortable at times, but I enjoy life for the most part. Changing my mind is in fact Word. I do everything because I am bored. I find ways to amuse myself and entertain others when I can. I’m wondering why I can’t be in love. How can I be intelligent when I am duped. What abomination occurs that makes you King of the Castle. We literally all put in work to Build it, we all get to stay there. The hierarchy is interpreted. Balance.

Trilli on-site

Trilli on-site
(This is literally just a list of Superlatives)

Apex top tier king of the world the one in charge I take precedence with my bars
The Ace of the deck the man of the House the husband to spouse the one with the mouse superlative best superior yes in words flexed I’m up top correct right perfection star of the show lead role mvp I’m the one that’s doing it Yo forever infinity endless time godly trinity alpha omega Unlimited unparalleled ubiquity omnipotence in an all powerful almighty righteousness kindly enlightened at a height of 5 12 6 feet authoritarian certainly as royalty fair in depth caring the birth of Jesus in measures of rhythm figured into an organism genius with an everything vision for everyone living I’m giving missionary sexual intercourse with precision key in ignition switching it up to be in every position additionally ima magician and I’m also a musician in fact I train you in fitness and am studying nutrition someday I’ll be a physician and know to change your transmission I am the newest edition and yes I work on commission I am adept my cognition is aligned with family traditions and here come acquisitions of ammunition for the war competition listen I’m driven and risen I work in every condition to pay my children’s tuition 2000 Ford Expedition combined with nuclear fission is what I’m pushing for bidding inside the true definition of what it means to b G
Intermittent Intermission it’s I Innit



I give you permission to start, with profound ambition, a petition for the prison to be abolished so we all can live freely in a Utopia (this will rid us of phobias, Babylonias, Patagonia’s, cause everyone knows north face is better, bologna and spam, barbecue meat for the damned and together we will all have bald eagle for the fall season of our lives. Fine feasting.


Medication women say I need meditation
And then I’m innovative for the celebration
Revelations coming heavy they send elation now I’m chilling with my homie making reservations
Indian giver government muttered in sputtered continuing of an invitation initiations matriculation indicating vindication interpolation masseuses day shift Medusa’s bay sent a blooping pay rent dork OW!


As long as you tell your story and stay true to what actually happens according to your own wholesome honor and dignity, others will listen and provide positive feedback. Their perspective(s) on what you say will be nice and you will be and feel nice too. #LawOfAttraction

BeTheChangeYouWishToSeeInTheWorld



‘The Secret’ = *Law of Attraction*
tS=LoA ie:
What you want will come to you in time. What you need is already there. And what you are is everything. So be yourself, and enjoy...

Game law

Find your mate, date, and make
Some beautiful little ones for your family
Panning seas and elevated skies by riding on high for the highest of heavens to enjoy and always understand that in order to make it we need one to be a girl and the other one just to be a boy uh
Popularity contest Swish 5
Camaraderie at its best what’s the dilly come shorty I got the west end tucked in a new east buck to make it trust me and then I have the opportunity to make it love me once again as a friend or maybe more we’ll see if we get bored we’ll be inside the score for me and all the doors to see. We are hearing euphemisms for sex banging inside our eardrums ya hear one wait ya think it’s next to keep it flowing always copping the best the rest is what we topping with sets of stranger options invest in what is profit obsessed #blessed.

Multiply
Decimate

It makes no change.

What will be will be, what was was, what is is. What was was what is, what will be will be what is, and what is will be what was.

What will be as what is now once was, will be what was and what is when what will be is what is and is what was.

If a cat is white.
The cat is white.

If the cat is black.
The cat is black.

If the cat is mixed, the cat is mixed.

The cat is the cat.

The cat is.

Singular present indicatives of Be:

Am: 1st person singular present indicative of be.

Are: present indicative plural and 2nd person singular of be.

Is:
verb
* 3rd person singular present indicative of be.
Idioms
* as is.  as1 (def. 23).


Dictionary definition of Be

Be: verb (used without object), present singular 1st person am,2nd are or (Archaic) art,3rd is,present plural are;past singular 1st person was,2nd were or (Archaic) wast or wert,3rd was,past plural were;present subjunctive be;past subjunctive singular 1st person were,2nd were or (Archaic) wert,3rd were;past subjunctive plural were;past participle been;present participle be·ing.
* to exist or live: Shakespeare's “To be or not to be” is the ultimate question.
* to take place; happen; occur: The wedding was last week.
* to occupy a place or position: The book is on the table.
* to continue or remain as before: Let things be.
* to belong; attend; befall: May good fortune be with you.
* (used as a copula to connect the subject with its predicate adjective, or predicate nominative, in order to describe, identify, or amplify the subject): Martha is tall. John is president. This is she.
* (used as a copula to introduce or form interrogative or imperative sentences): Is that right? Be quiet! Don't be facetious.
auxiliary verb, present singular 1st person am,2nd are or (Archaic) art,3rd is,present plural are;past singular 1st person was,2nd were or (Archaic) wast or wert,3rd was,past plural were;present subjunctive be;past subjunctive singular 1st person were,2nd were or (Archaic) wert,3rd were;past subjunctive plural were;past participle been;present participle be·ing.
* (used with the present participle of another verb to form the progressive tense): I am waiting.
* (used with the present participle or infinitive of the principal verb to indicate future action): She is visiting there next week. He is to see me today.
* (used with the past participle of another verb to form the passive voice): The date was fixed. It must be done.
* (used in archaic or literary constructions with some intransitive verbs to form the perfect tense): He is come. Agamemnon to the wars is gone.
verb (used with object) present singular 1st person am,2nd are,3rd is,present plural are;past singular 1st person was,2nd were3rd was,past plural were.
* Informal. to say, declare, think, or feel (usually used to introduce reported speech or thought): So I'm walking down my street yesterday, and I'm “Why is there a crowd in front of my house?”


In other words, Am, are, and is = (mean) (are) (exist as) (are defined as) (must be considered) be.

As The word Be is basically the wonder of existence or state of having some sort of sense. Postulate if you will. It balances in duality situations brought together in ubiquity that separate at a point, implying the divine intervention brings about a surprise which may be considered to be what is the meaning of what it is to be alive or to “be”. This implication of change, is what is being studied or perceived at the current moment (or in past or future endeavors) and prevails all other words and/or discriminations as movement. Albeit, what follows is what follows: light, scent, sound, space, and time exhibit this acknowledgement proversely.
Words also meaning am, are, is, be, and movement are: love, pleasure, euphoria, infinity, whatever, you, want, to, call, it, really, Vibes, Vibrations, dude, consciousness, and and, a, and as.

A is interesting as well.

Definition of A:
A:

indefinite article
* not any particular or certain one of a class or group: a man; a chemical; a house.
* a certain; a particular: one at a time; two of a kind; A Miss Johnson called.
* another; one typically resembling: a Cicero in eloquence; a Jonah.
* one (used before plural nouns that are preceded by a quantifier singular in form): a hundred men (compare hundreds of men); a dozen times (compare dozens of times).
* indefinitely or nonspecifically (used with adjectives expressing number): a great many years; a few stars.
* one (used before a noun expressing quantity): a yard of ribbon; a score of times.
* any; a single: not a one.


Similar to how Be has the first definition come up with the word Verb stationed at the front and top of the definition box but not overtly at the top like in other common definitions it can be understood that Be is definite as Verb. Verb is not necessarily defined as Be but can be defined as noun if demonstrated in the right way. That being said for Verb the part of speech is designated where it is supposed to be meaning it’s part of speech is implied in its essence, however, the definition of be is altered in its part of speech being directly beside the word as if it is the words true definition or at least a synonym. Nonetheless, the definition of the word Noun is starting again with the part of speech as a part of the definition as it is spaced beside the word Noun and is denoted as itself or Noun. This means we have wrapped up the human language on interactive experience. Noun is Noun. The third person singular present tense won the game in that the dictionary definition proves as a calculator does that Noun does in fact mean and is defined by the word Noun and no other words are honestly needed for the discussion as it’s state of being declares its state of being and it’s life in the Cosmos will forever be fostered at home for all who wish to learn to speak their native tongue to completion. Furthermore here are the credits allotted through logical manor and manners for Game Law is discovered and the world will forever be changed and remain the same in its proverb of kinetic potential and potential kinetic transfers of energy through space time and within the universe as we know it. Anyway, thanks for reading, if you want to contact me you can find me on Facebook as William James Best Mi. Message me there. Good Luck!