**Translated Lyrics:**

After graduation, Xiaoyun is looking for an internship. Xiaoyu is very happy; she has long wanted to move out of the dormitory and live with her boyfriend. Her mother disagrees, saying that it's embarrassing for a girl to live with a boy before marriage. But Xiaoyu is modern and, regardless of her mother's thoughts, wants to secretly live with her boyfriend. But how to pay rent? Now it’s fine; as long as she finds a decent-paying internship, she can afford to rent a place with her boyfriend. Xiaoyun is also excited; she can finally experience real life in Shanghai.

The two quickly found internships. Xiaoyun works in finance at a bank. Xiaoyu interns in the human resources department of a multinational company. To save money, they rented a two-bedroom apartment near the school with Xiaoyu's boyfriend, Wang Yang. Wang Yang is preparing for graduate school, studying at school every day, and also helps the two girls with cooking and chores.

When their mother heard that the sisters were renting a place off-campus, she immediately thought about coming from Lanzhou to live with them. Shanghai is her hometown, and she hasn’t been back in nearly thirty years. She saw on TV that Shanghai has become an international metropolis, filled with skyscrapers, and she really wants to go back and take a look. She called her daughter: “Xiaoyu, you both are busy with work now. I’m retired and have plenty of time; let me come over and take care of you. I can help cook.”

Xiaoyu thought, living under mom's watch every day wouldn’t be easy; she absolutely cannot let her mom come.

“Mom, no need to come! We’re doing great. Food isn’t a problem; there are plenty of convenience stores in Shanghai where we can buy food anytime. You should stay home and take care of Dad!”

“That won’t do. The food outside isn’t clean, and it’s not as good as what I make.”

“Oh, Mom, our workplaces are far away. We leave early and come back late every day. We can’t spend time with you; you’ll be bored here. Plus, our place isn’t big.”

“Mom is an old Shanghainese; I don’t need to accompany you. While you’re at work, I’ll go shopping. Do you both have boyfriends? Don’t want me to see? You’re in your senior year; you should have boyfriends by now. It’s perfect timing for me to come and check it out.”

“Mom, no, I just met a guy I like. Once we’re officially together, you can come.”

“Then I must come even more! I’ve met many men; I can help you see if you should be with this boy!”

“Mom, please don’t interfere. I’ll decide about my boyfriend myself,” Xiaoyu said.

“Oh, I know, you just don’t want me to come to Shanghai. You’re grown up, working, and can live on your own now, so you don’t need your old mom anymore. You don’t even want to see me now; what will happen when we’re old and need care?” Hearing her mother say this, Xiaoyu had no choice but to let her come.

Mom will arrive in Shanghai next Sunday. Xiaoyu suggested that her boyfriend Wang Yang go with her to the train station to pick her up and help carry the luggage. Wang Yang thought, since it’s their first meeting, he should make a good impression on his future mother-in-law. He knows that the twins’ mother is very strict with them, so Wang Yang is nervous and doesn’t know what to wear that day.

“You can’t dress too stylishly; my mom will think you’re a playboy,” Xiaoyu said.

Wang Yang took out a white shirt: “How about this? I’ll wear dress pants below.”

“That won’t work; you’ll need to carry luggage, and that outfit isn’t convenient.”

“How about this one?” “Too old-fashioned; my mom will think you don’t look like a Shanghainese.”

…So they took all the clothes out of the wardrobe to look through, and in the end, they chose a T-shirt and a pair of jeans. After picking out the clothes, they discussed what questions mom might ask and how Wang Yang should best respond.

It seems Xiaoyu is also quite nervous.