Aye, yo
Austin baby
Luian
Mambo Kingz
Let's go

[Pre-Chorus: Arcangel]
Today I got up the left side of the bed (Of the bed, of the bed)
Don't want drama and for that I roll a blunt & marijuana, oh, oh
Couple of thou' I got trappin' early in the morning, managed to buy my cuban
I bought my car and my mansion in the American nation
I was born to be a millionaire, don't want fame (Woo!)

[Chorus: Bad Bunny & Arcangel, Both]
I've got used to, I've got used to
To always win like twenty-three (I)
I've got used to, I've got used to (Yup)
To shut those who don't believe me
I've got used to, I've got used to (What?)
To not care 'bout the price of what I bought (Don't play)
I'vе got used to, I've got used to (To what?)
To nail all thеse hoes three by three (Aye, yo; Woo)

[Verse 1: Arcangel]
Let me tell you how I did it fifteen years ago (Ago)
I would sit with Geezy, flip the kilo 'till there was no more, ah (No, no, no)
Then things changed (Yeah) and we started to rap (Yeah)
To worlds travel, the bag arrive, there was no more struggle, no
But if you want me to talk to you about drugs, gladly, youngin', I'll teach you (Yes)
I know the capos and none are frogs; Dominican, Puerto Rican
I don't get along much with employees, why?
For the simple reason (Why?) That I grew up with the owners (Auh!)
One day, a bud of mine, a couple of millions of his made me count
I lasted all night counting bills and my hand began to itch
The hours passed and I was far from finishing yet (Finishing)
To me, that was a sign (Sign) that I was going to get later (Huh!)
You might also like[Chorus: Bad Bunny & Arcangel, Both]
I've got used to, I've got used to
To always win like twenty-three (I)
I've got used to, I've got used to (Yup)
To shut those who don't believe me
I've got used to, I've got used to (What?)
To not care bout the price of what I bought (Don't play)
I've got used to, I've got used to (To what?)
To nail all these hoes three by three, I (Yeh, yeh, yeh)

[Verse 2: Bad Bunny & DJ Luian]
I got used to the envious always deceiving (Yeh)
And that for clout, my name mention
(Fuckin' muhfucka, keep my name out of your mouth)
I'm always on my zone, chillin'
Tell'em Luian, that you put your golden tail around your neck and now it weighs a kilo (Hahahaha!)
The movie always stellar
If you don't believe me, ask at Banco Popular
Kush caps, never regular
This an All-Star game, you ain't going to play
Hitting more hits than David Ortíz
I'm with The Beatles, crazy to shoot Kiss
I got used to models with style from Paris, yeh
The most hated: Donald Trump
Oil in the vape, don't smoke blunt anymore
I make him dance kuduro, like Don
They touch me and Armaggedon advances, ah (Yeh)
Thank God for the gift
Since I signed, they all want to take a ride
Drop the Al Capone movie
Cause you could be Carter doing the three-sixty and we give you a block, yeh
[Chorus: Bad Bunny & Arcangel, Both]
I've got used to, I've got used to
To not care 'bout the price of what I bought (I)
I've got used to, I've got used to (Yup)
To nail all these hoes three by three
I've got used to, I've got used to (What?)
To always win like twenty-three (Don't play)
I've got used to, I've got used to (To what?)
To shut those who don't believe me (I)

[Outro: Bad Bunny]
Yeah
Bad bunny baby
What's good, Arca
We haven't flopped a track
Mambo Kingz
Mambo Kingz!
Aye, tell'em, that we have the trap crown
Tell'em, Luian
Yeah-eh-eh-eh
Hear This Music
Hear This Music
Woo!