**Translated Lyrics:**

[Intro: MC Igu]  
Yeah  
Celo, you’re amazing  
Yeah  
Uh, it’s Igu  
Yeah  

[Chorus: MC Igu]  
This girl’s on the scene (Yeah!)  
I think she wants to vibe (Wants to vibe!)  
Hundred bills in my pants (Flex!)  
I stash this cash in Nepal (Uh-huh!)  
I throw the most expensive diamond at her  
She already knows we’re in the groove  
She only likes me and my crew  
She wants to see my tattoo (It’s G!)  
This girl’s on the scene (Scene)  
I think she wants to vibe (Wants to vibe!)  
Hundred bills in my pants (In my pants)  
I stash this cash in Nepal (Pow)  
I throw the most expensive diamond at her (At her)  
She already knows we’re in the groove (Yeah)  
She only likes me and my crew (Yeah)  
She wants to see my tattoo (It’s G!)  

[Verse 1: MC Igu & DEREK]  
Yeah, uh, post my song on stories (Stories)  
Show it to Nicole Bahls (Bahls)  
You’re acting tough (Uh)  
I’ve already taken down the big bad wolf (Pow)  
Bullet with bullet in the wok (Wok)  
I grabbed a Yeezy on Block (On Block)  
Man, I just skip that powder (Yeah)  
You were raised by your grandma (Uh-huh!)  
I stack the cash and ride on the Hornet (Pew)  
Juju on my face and Glock on my waist  
Turn the corner and hide in the alley  
It’s narrow, no room for the cops (It’s G!)  
Ninja thug, don’t forget  
Grab that kilo, leave it delivered (Pow)  
Lek rocking only new Margiela  
You can try, but you’ll never catch me (Yeah)  
I enter the hood without fear  
My dude, they came over early  
Man, you know I’ve never been caught  
What I do for myself, I never want an example (It’s Igu!)  
Let everything resolve itself  
Who told me this could never happen?  
Grab the block, gather everything with the cash  
If you don’t like this, man (Wet!), explode  

[Verse 2: DEREK]  
Post my song on stories (Sto'!)  
Show it to Nicole Bahls (Bahls!)  
You’re acting tough (Tough!)  
I’ve already taken down the big bad wolf (Alright!)  
We’ve got bullets with bullets (Got!)  
We’re tired of Balmain (Te-te-te-tem!)  
I only wear Spi's brand (Spi'!)  
And all my gang too (Wok, wok, wok!)  
This girl is Dutch (Slatt!)  
Hundred bills on my table (Huh?)  
Bitch, I stashed it in the suitcase (Pow!)  
Next year you’ll try again (Try!)  
I’ve already grabbed another Yeezy (One!)  
Swag, swag, swag, swag (Slatt)  
7-7-7-7 (Slatt)  
No bad vibes, bad, bad (Bad, pow)  
Party, party, party, party  
Of course, of course, of course, of course  
Of course, of course, of course, of course  
Of course, of course, of course, of course (Ayy)  
Five girls in the Camaro ('Maro!)  
Everything, everything, everything paid (Bitch)  
Everything, everything, everything paid (Wait)  
Everything, everything, everything paid (Huh?)  

[Verse 3: Klyn & MC Igu]  
Look at me, copy this here  
Look at me, try to do better  
Man, I’m fierce and not dissing (G!)  
Look, this girl’s high on everything from the wok (Okay!)  
Made a story tagging Klyn  
The toughest without a Glo' permit (Yeah!)  
Look, Nicole dances to this one  
All wet, she said so (It’s G!)  
Another hit with the homies  
Did it like this, just for free, those vibes  
It’s Kly', the fiercest without mercy (Pow-pow)  
My girl, what do you want from me?  
There’s an outfit, there are kits, there are drinks, I’ll put you in the vibe  
Grab this one, I’m here, diamond  
Ice in my lean, my wrist has frozen (Yeah)  
Recayd and what I did, without falling, right here  
I made it rise, those who aren’t here, Klyn took them out  
This girl is Madonna, I’m 2Pac  
Look at my