I came all the way from L.A. to this show to fight
And don't trip, I'm not about to let you down like Quill did with a choke tonight!
You already got bodied by Diz'
So after tonight this will be your second time dying in a row
They'll be saying you won zero back to back, like binary code
I do freestyles, multi's, punches, wordplay
You just do bar after bar and you're known to reach some
While I contact from every angle, like the Mona Lisa
Pussy, I really rap, so he's fucking dead, people
Cause I'm coming for a cold body, like necrophiliacs
And he'll react like "I'm a cannibal, I don't just kill I feed of it
But only if the rules are fine"
Well since he's a cannibal I'll make him eat his backbone
And watch as he chews the spine
Don't believe it? Boy, fuck with me
These hands left more kids split than joint custody
Till it's rupturing when your cranium straight splatters
Occipital lobe over there, frontal lobe over there
Now let's see if his brain matter
Cause King Of The Dot let a killer loose
Like the OJ Simpson case panel
To put a middle eastern in a bag behind bars
Like a Guantanamo Bay scandal
Get your face scrambled
With hands thrown at a ferocious speed
But he doesn't need to be an R&B fan for Gjo' to see
That I'm okay seeing Gjojo catch a hook on a slower beat!
You scrapping is something we just don't believe
"But Christ the second coming if you rise-" shut up!
What I could do with one blade will remind you of a confession booth from his whole appearance
Cause he'll be spilling his guts after I come clean across
And I'll be leaving a holy spirit
The hole will spill and tear his cavity
Doctors will have to support the core, like military families
I buried all your cats, get dropped cause you wouldn't box
This is your funeral now
No, pay attention, I said "burial", "casket" "wooden box"
This is your funeral now!
Did you catch the plot?
.......
.......
Woah, woah, woah, y'all thought I was slipping? Man just stop
That wasn't a choke, I just figured he needed a moment of silence before the casket dropped!
But if he survives he'll put the piece that rotted his teeth
And not just keep on firing
'Til he eats the magazine; Reader's Digest
Or bleed when I send one swing to just finish
And leave you stiffen and sleeping
With just teeth next to you like senior citizens
Or leave him split with one punch in the head to come and just shred and crush in his septum when it bust in the center
And fucking up your whole appearance like a public defender
You love to pretend these written you've given the futuristic image to like this is new is misconstrued
Cause the simple truths you're living through
An artificial formula like infants do
While the rest of us were breaking up
Taking a match any date that we can and breaking our backs
Smack gave you a way to get past
So you're like Moses
The way your power came from a snake and a staff
All first verse, all first verse
That bridge is how he's risen
But now he wouldn't be shit without these
So it's safe to say The Dude wouldn't be the same without Bridges like the Big Lebowski
You use religious references to get cheap reaction
Off their applicability to the general public
Then set them up a collective subject
But [?] one hit direct enough that when you end with punches
The perception of it's impressive
But it's just a crutch to pretend it's substance
Then this punk just turned his back on Smack to come to King Of The Dot but it was...
Suicide, you knew you'd die, it's a cry for help
'Cause now you've lost EVERYTHING and EVERYONE, you're all by yourself
You're like Waldo playing "Where's Waldo?"
YOU NEED TO FIND YOURSELF!!
You can take any bar from any verse from any rounds on me
And the crowd will safely say that every rounds on me
And after I get that money tonight, I'm heading straight to the bar, and you best believe it's gon' be rounds on me!
You might also like[Round 1: Gjonaj]
Are you guys ready to not see gimmicks?
Alright, that Reader's Digest bar was impressive
Way doper than every other rapper who said it
This battle was supposed to be for $5,000
The fuck happened to Put Your Money Where Your Mouth Is?
Pussy had Organik call me

[Psycoses]
No, I didn't

[Gjonaj]
Yes you did. He said, "That amount of money is life changing"
I said, "He may be right"
But if five grand is live changing...you need to change your life!
And now I got to rob his parent's crib
For fucking up my motivation
If it was five grand, there wouldn't be any/B 'N E reason for this home invasion
I will kick in the door, shoot the whore
You want more dead? Pistol to your head
Show me to the safe and I'll be in the vault quicker than Cortez
Caustic, Pat Stay, The Saurus, Bigg K – I don't give a fuck who you have involved… I have evolved
Bodies once sloppily rotting are now frozen in catalogs
Serial killers keep trophies, but I'll take cash in hand
A thousand for the sacrifice (What's that?)
A rack of lamb!
Well, I'll be damned, just to see you live in Hell
It is Silence Of The Lambs, I hope you're living well
It puts the lotion on, living well
How could he fucking win?
Buffalo Bill wouldn't be comfortable in his fucking skin
It's Heavy Builder vs Extra Filler, they expect a thriller
These people crazy, fuck Steven Avery; even my setup killer
This is not a new release, it ain't gotta do with peace
Of course I'm fighting a bum, I made a living on the streets
Fork in the road, the dead end up on another path
You should've stayed in your lane, you're fucking trash
You got a little buzz, thought you'd be a fucking match
But you gon' die leaving a mark that doesn't last
Did it sting? Then bring up the fucking past
(*​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​Starts addressing Dizaster in the crowd*​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​)
Yeah, the Earth quaked
But the magnitude is just an afterthought
'Cause the shit that landed in the building, wasn't the same aftershock!
Yeah, it wasn't, was it?!
So is it MY fault for being groundbreaking if they didn't get this shit?
See, the future can learn from the past, but not exist in it
So I'm past that
It's not that he can't rap
I'm just...so ahead of my time you're currently trapped in a flashback!
You're gonna lose a rack flat
Was it worth the hype?
You can either wait, or have too much on your plate for the perfect fight
You see what happens when it's catered? Serves you right!
See, your eyes are bigger than your stomach
That food's a little closer
You're gonna realize I'm a killer AT LARGE, and TESTIN' ME will be the reason you DIE JUST A LITTLE SLOWER!!!
Now, did that shit faze you?
Cause they said when I face you, phase one was to break you
They fucking hate you; look who they gave you!
Think U.S. pennies...
'Cause you're worth less than the cost it took to make you!
Early!
[Round 2: Psycoses]
Yo, he just had that Silence Of The Lambs bar
But that whole scheme was straight up lame
I'm not Buffalo Bill, I'm Hannibal Lecter
'Cause once Psyco' broke out the pen, there's no saving face!
This round is for everything who thinks my shit is all filler
Now watch me get this body on cam: Von Miller
I'll kill him with hands sharper than Wolverine
With the titanium blade
Start rearranging your face 'til it looks like you have Hills Have Eyes creature uranium traits
Have your DNA looking bad when the machete spray in your face
But if you get in my grill and you're thrilling I'm willing to push your grill in so start playing it safe
Think Stoop Kid from Hey Arnold!
You don't wanna get stepping over stares, so stay in your place
It's safe to say you go down that path, you'll take a left and hook on the right like you were asking for directions
You'll be feeling the burn like you want Sanders elected
Having this bitch head in a box like Brad Pitt in Seven
When you get beat with bare hands like that panda in Tekken
You can act too pretentious
So I'll leave him stuck up with his nose like this dude's snobby
Walking around with half a face from one hit like a House Of The Dead 2 zombie
When the dude's talking, I'm sending the other hand swinging
That'll make you bite your tongue like a bad seizure
Hands jabbing like Pan's Labyrinth
The kid'll get eaten if my hands see him
And beat him, 'til you all see one land like Pangaea
All sea? One land? Pangaea?
You can't see me, you don't respect the scene
So I take it as disrespect to me
This is for every time I stopped at the gas station to take a piss and your cousin wouldn't give me the restroom key
Test you see
It'll be like Calicoe's dad the way I'm taking off on son
Get your gang involved in trust and engage a brawl with us
The same result then comes, but if engaging is not enough
Then they can all get clubbed like Megan Fox's thumbs
I'm not the one, I'm not the one
Last battle I said, "One arm waving got you running home like a third base coach"
But for you? I brought something worse
When you see two arms waving like Th3 Saga in church!
You thought that every verse was gonna 3-0 me
But I'm already a mountain to nothing
It turned out that I'm out in two-nothing
And that's why your bars ain't amounting to nothing
Cause this is Everest to a desert strip
This a mountain to nothing!
Dude's bluffing
This a firecracker to what happens when you're making an atom split
You add it quick 'cause my addict wit is more adequate than Anne Frank's attic width
You told OT 7even, "Shank to his neck: I'm apple-picking"
Well, ain't that some shit?
One boot will turn his Adam's apple to applesauce with his larynx twist
Then I'll reboot him...and not even Steve Jobs can get him his apple fixed!
Yo, that was a genius bar!
And against Born, you said, "It's hard when everyone you know's crooked like Owen Wilson"
That was so cotton-soft!
Quit acting like you when your folks call the shots
And lighten your tone like Michael Jackson before everybody that you know's falling off!
This reminds me a little bit like Daylyt versus Iron Solomon
I'm not calling this a mirror match
Let me give y'all a clear vision
This reminds me of Daylyt versus Iron Solomon
'Cause in this battle, you need to self-reflect on your mirror image
Early!
[Round 2: Gjonaj]
Hibbity, dibbity, flibbity, jibbity…shut the fuck up!
You wanna know what everyone on cam' wonders?
How do you spit twice as fast and have half the substance?
You're fucking trash!
Look, I appreciate the fans that remain loyal
But there's a difference between someone that'll lie to you
And someone that'll lie for you
There's a difference between someone that'll kill for you
And someone that'll die for you
That's why I don't give a fuck about your fans
I can count how many people I trust on Jason Pierre-Paul's hands
Look, don't get defensive or you'll miss the message
See, I needed a match
You'se the natural selection and I hate that
It was dramatized, fossilized, let's go way back
There was a missing link
It seemed our wins didn't explain that
Now for y'all in the building, who can't rewind or replay that
"Natural selection", "fossilized", "missing link"
It seemed Darwin didn't explain that!
See I'ma do that all night and clearly kill him
But first let's light up the building
It's time to switch on him like a stepchild
This next style nastier than a meth smile
Die from biting: West Nile
Circles change, shape shift, alien reptile
I'll crack his skull: he thought it was The X-Files
American Sniper: I'll go from this Kyle to Chris Kyle!
Confirmed kill, it gets worse still
I use violence to paint the pic, you're a human virus
Matrix shit, replay the glitch
You'll see the same body over and over...Agent Smith!
Which is why I win on cam a lot
This is not your night/knight
Everything I spit sorta lands a lot
This is MY kingdom
I alone am ruler
They measured my successes soon as my foot fit through
It's quicksand, there's a point I'm 'bout to get to
Struggle and die faster...
Did it sink in?
I'm the last thing you should've ran into!
Why stop when I got more to prove?
I'm Cyclops: this one I can't afford to lose
I'm in your blind spot
Don't get stuck in traffic, oh you heard the story?
Well it's working for me
Get stuck in the middle; purgatory
Fans get to judge the living… and the dead, see it's all an angle
30 pieces of silver and a fallen angel
Hanging with the twelve before I got a cradle
And made bread off the body before I got the table
The Last Supper
Bow your head as I read a verse
Dear Lord...tonight, one of us is going to leave the Earth
May the peace be with you, 'cause if I see him first
Purrump-a-pum-pum...all I brought was a drum like Jesus' birth!
See, at first, wise men followed a star
Nowadays...fuck that, just follow the bars!
Salute!

[Round 3: Psycoses]
Let's get it popping, G
I'm here to school boy on cue: no collard greens
So, face it, fam: it's basic math
I'm the prime one, so you can't even be at odds with me
I bring fury to this field like a Ottawa soccer team
I doctor these pupils: optometry
Running through every body in my path like a Hotel Rwanda scene
This is Man vs. Food and it's my job to eat
Even when I'm freestyling off-the-top, it's clean
Think Sub-Zero from Mortal Kombat: I body frees
All these squares around make the game bored: Monopoly
You talk a lot about knocking the noggins of Socrates
Stop it, please!
Like couples locked in monogamy rocking promise rings, we never saw you swing
You say you'll start shooting stars
Calm it, please!
Or guns get brought to the table like a Dahmer feast
Long nose in front of your face all day like what Caustic sees
Or catch you and you boo when you're on the streets
Put your boo in a bag like Monsters, Inc
Yo, it's odd cause he said he was gonna hurt Diz's career
Then we all just died from laughter
When you forgot your lines at half verse and started calling time quick after
Hey, you guys wanna know what rhymes with "calling time quick after?"

[Caustic]
Getting bodied by Dizaster!

[Psycoses]
Yo, but tonight, you're gonna get it bar for bar
'Cause that's what everybody here's wanting
But I didn't write a single jellyfish line
So, tonight, no one's gonna have a problem pronouncing this a clear body!
A clear homi'
So act a fool in every party, you have a new we'll tear apart
In black and blue from every scar
And, faggot, you will have to prove you carry heart
When we see this monkey stand up for himself like the evolutionary chart
Did you hear that Darwinism bar he had in his last round when he said it, son?
Yeah, well fuck it, I got a better one
Cause you, are you familiar with the Theory Of Evolution?
Cause Darwinism best explains how this match was concepted
See, you never learned to adapt to the present
So naturally it only took one disaster to end him then
Due to the growth in my bio-logically I was the natural selection
After you stepped in, it was like Smack had a sex doll fetish the way you blew up this fake fuck, then gassed his rounds
While I got slept on by more battle rappers than Organik's couch
While I had to find a way to try to pay to fly the states and trapped in the traffic lines for days
The price was waved right away for this guy to take the diamond lane to the fastest route
So the staff on Smack is over half the reason they have him out
So the King Of The Dot was happy to have him out
But I'll be happy when we have him out!
But after now, I ain't take a loss
But if they say that I lost, then I'm taking off
Rocking the King Of The Dot chain with Illmaculate hanging off it!
You were taking off with your PG release lifted
His weak image to be pictured like he's an elite figure
Now they use your bull pen for a warm-up like relief pitchers
You use historical figures and facts that are bound to be Convincing for half the crowd to think
It's skill but in actuality
It's a gimmick you had to clown to scheme
When your simplicity masters challenging
Cause the significant fact left out of these
Writtens you have them found to be
Missing the factuality
And littered with massive fallacies
And hidden within the fictitious image with little impracticality
Yo, for example, for example
For example, you told JC
"They knew I was gonna sleep you as soon as they set a date"
Set a date/sedative...that's a reach!
Then you said, "I could beat you with the bars I land off the free if the pen ink gone"
Pen ink gone/Pentagon...that's a reach!
Then you said, "You'll all get fed embalming fluid unless you find somewhere for a mole to hide"
For a mole to hide/Formaldehyde...that's a reach!
"You could battle John John in a mosque and still out-rhyme a don"
Out rhyme a don/Ramadan...that's a reach!
Faggot, please, there's an obvious gap in everything you say
Getting reaction off bars that don't make sense only make you look stupid in the long run...just ask DNA
(Last bars)
Round 3, it's getting hot in here
King Of The Dot, y'all know that slogan
(Get him the fuck out of here!)
Hell no, get the beanie on this geek the fuck outta here
You're afraid of immigration: get this Syrian refugee the fuck outta here
Half of your bars don't even make sense, get that every fucking reach the fuck out of here
I kill rappers back-to-back here because I love Toronto
Somebody get Meek the fuck outta here!

[Round 3: Gjonaj]
Yo, who the fuck is he talking to every round?
You better make like a bitch in her wedding gown and settle down!
Oh you maid of honor?
Well we are not the same
A loss in reality, I'm how he got a name
I ignore pain and pressure points
What an easy win, look how you act
You punked yourself, why needle him?
You're so close to death like senior citizens
Needle, sew clothes, no joke
While he was thinking about what to write next
I was doing random licks like dyke sex
Bitch head in the box
Since you mention the movie Seven
Bitch, head in the box since you mention the movie Seven!
Guess you could use a lesson on who to threaten
There go all of Robert progress like a 2-11
Robbery in progress? 2-11?
Plus I said his name: Jesse James
It is Robert, right?
Well if I'm robbed tonight
As in...you skip town and you're found alive
Leave with the cash and the judges aren't on his side
He'll be the next Robert to die famous like Bonnie and Clyde
So run and hide
You do not want to be Robert E. Lee
Granted, history repeats except I'm leaving a twist
Fuck being civil, war is where you'll ahh...cease to exist!
Bitch I slave over linking these concepts, no exaggeration
But there's still freedom for Blackout like Emancipation
Run the chain
Rone and 'Mac hunger- hold on, I'm still what's-his-name
What a shame
Cause outside of KOTD, you are not known
You are just a captive, I would've capped him if you affected my Stockholm
(Stockholm Syndrome, hey...too smart for y'all)
Stockholm, you're skull and bones right away
Kidnapped, locked away
Escape alive, not today
Ransom, you gotta pay
Danger, too kind of ways
Lotta Zay or JonBenet
I've gotta say
I've gotta say
For another 4K, you would've got a person buried
Remi-, I'm not a hit man I'm a mercenary
A pallbearer, don't get carried away
This is not a classic
I'm Paul "Bear" Bryant: I'm coaching 'em in the casket
See, this is what happens when you get it backwards
When animals run the zoo and get to pick the matches
You get the poor vers' the top 1 percent, we're in different classes
(Yeah, "Whose kid is this?" is right!)
Show me where the cash is
I'm Ali before the Frazier fight
Fuck a war, you know my name, Gjonaj, say it right
I'll be remembered as a legend, you're a man forgotten
Your material has a shelf life, it's black and rotten
Expired before you did and THAT'S the problem
I'd rather make you a current event than rap about 'em!
I had to show him what the difference is
Cause feeding lambs to the wolves seems ignorant
But what's a shepherd do when the sheep ain't listening?
Goodnight!