Yeah
Yeah
Uh-huh
Mike and Loopie on the track, beat from Doja Cat
Okay

[Verse 1: mikejh]
Here's what they think about you
Wild n' Out. Kicked right out the booth
Saying all that shit and now you're booted
From the show. Don't steal that out from Cube
But you see, I'm also having my shit bit
Taking what they hear and doing they best to nitpick
Head to my feet, my whole life go in this shit
To do my best defeating these bitches who tryna get shit
Screwing my reputation like Goya
You act like you and I friends, but I don't know ya
Yeah I knew that you lying, you make me doze off
Who knew the fact that I would go hard
She got the Fendi whatever you call it
No way in hell that I be sending shit from my wallet if I dont need it
And these bitches be calling but too many
Like damn, see the battery falling?
Stop vibrating! Shit, gotta put it on silent
What do your rhymes consist? Like boy, quit trying. Yeah
We finna spit like a flame in a fire. Yeah
We gon' exist for a while like this virus
Like bitch, shut the fuck up. You don't know it like me
Yeah my ass locked up 'cause of COVID-19
But also you think I'm dumb? Think it's not what I seen?
Bitch your- your flow a bump but my flow so icy. Yeah
Tryna flex like that's enough
Talking yo Maybach, you may back the fuck off
'Cause you don't know shit on what's happening, huh? Yeah
One day I'll be surpassing 'em
Yeah you make me wanna sigh 'cause legit don't give a fuck
Breaker one nine, I'm coming in like a truck
Stay on the line, 'cause I'ma hit you like a puck
Score 9-0, I find you with no luck
Dreaming of the money then I got it true
Cash flowing in like honey like it's barbeque
Boy you dogging over something like you Marmaduke, chill
'Cause none of us ain't know what's got to you
I need loose flow like who knows that you won't
Pay kudos so judo right through yo ass
'Cause you know that through both of us that
We don't need a new role so you go right to home
I cover these walls, but you just painting 'em
Bitch you'll never take off, that's why you hating us
You think I'm wrong, but all these facts I'm stating 'em
Just like some files, take one, I'm arranging and
Destaining all the tiles like Lysol
Now I need someone to fight y'all
You might also like[Verse 2: Loopie]
It's been a little while, I got the mic on
You a die hard fan, acting like you never liked what
You see when I hop on, you wanna get rid of me like Aunt Jemima
Then I block, then I know that I'm getting spied on
Bitch you been fuckin whorin' like Niall
I know that it's your style, you don't have to be in denial
You hairy cunt, look like a sack of shit anyways
I'm going in one direction, to fuck the beat in many ways
You thought that I was going? Suck my penis all dry
Hey God, I'm afraid we're not gonna meet for a while
'Cause some bitches wanted me to rest in peace and then fly
They some pussies and they never wanted me to reply
I'll make you my bitch, you'll never wanna sleep at night
You know we coming, feel the wrath of Loopie and Mike
You nothing but a motherfucking sheep, so cry
And make up a bunch of lies about me, so I
Can tell you all that you don't know about me
Since you don't know what I been through, and you say it proudly
That you got dirt on me, but I will say it loudly
Fuck you, I'm back, now, please allow me
To elaborate, bout the fact I lost half my mates
And it's sad that they, really had to snake
But I have to stay, calm cause if I get mad, I'll waste
Half a day sending jabs their way, here's a track I made
Oh shit, my ex just added me back to say
She's really sorry for stabbing my back, hooray
Couldn't give a rat's ass, it's the past so make
Your way to the streets, I ain't fallin for your act today
You've done enough, I don't want Season 4
Of games with my feelings, so, go to the streets you whore
I'd rather fuck a piece of pork, than be with your
Lying ass so in case you forgot, here's the door
I'll keep a mask off cause I see into the future
Shut your ass up, I don't care bout what you heard
If it ain't come from me, then it's false, it's a rumor
All these retards on twitter tryna give me tumors
I make jokes, you get butthurt, who's this?
All these stupid motherfuckers dreaming... Lucid
Another guy letting fame and clout control him
Sad to see that, but listen I'm supposed to
Be your friend not your fan, and you're acting like it
So I hope you understand I cannot continue like this
I thought you were my best friend, but you think I'm your best fan
So I'm peacing outta here, bye bitch
Bitch you know I'm poppin' cause I'm making hits
You gonna fuck with August like Jada Smith
You gonna love the bars, you'll get in entanglements
Damn, that really was a low blow. Sorry
Honestly I think I said enough, I'm all out of ammo
Sike, I got one more thing to say to the barrel
Fuck you, and fuck your side chick, you fake
I gotta be honest I never thought it'd see the day
That people finally realize you're nothing but a bitch
Casual you ain't shit, what you did made me sick
I've been backstabbed many times, but I gotta bury the hatchet
In the back of every rapper
That test me, threats, jeez, they don't affect me
You've sent me, many empty words, but where's the
Action, I thought you were meant to end me
Now look at you, you're the one who shed tears
Tired of getting snaked, especially by that little hoe
She thought it was Minecraft so I gave her dinnerbone
Had to kick it up a Notch, so I take a jab at you bitches
Cause y'all irrelevant like the Bedrock edition, Loopie out
[Outro: mikejh]
The adventures of JH and Loop
Fuck around we go melee on you
Charged with battery like ay, ay, it's true. Yeah
Shooting bars like an AK like pew
We be going like a lighthouse bitch, 'cause we lighting off
Like the Hype House, break it down
Providing y'all bars such as like how we keep it pop like Tylenol
This is Mike now. Signing off2