Dude dig it, you finished
I must've spazzed, I move different
It's death in the venue I brung a tool in it, I only got like two minutes
Now watch what I'ma do with it, I'm a fool wit it
So don't get the boot
I'm rolling up with a strong plant that's Quill and Groot
You can't diss the truth when this the truth
It's all gun bars when you hit the booth
Niggas like you just wanna shoot the shit but you ain't got shit to shoot
Sick with the handle and the pistol puke
When Bigg stressing?
Them kid games, quit flexing
You ain't Bigg you just K, like when a bitch texting
Fat ass mid section, cut in half fast as a split second
Wait...now hold that weight on your chest like you bench pressing
Max pressure, you ain't getting paid for this kind of cameo so why you trying to act extra?
What kind of shit is that?
You must think you cinematic cause every time you interact it's like you in an act
You just out here making loud statements
Only reason you even a crowd favorite is cause your style is easy and it sound basic
Crack your vertebrae your crown caving
Drop the whole house on you, I'll 30 K like a down payment
Your shit is boring to me, that's dry and tame
You ain't fly, you plain
I'll make a graph and explain why you lame
Simple formula, setup perpendicular
Nigga, every one of your lines the same
It's kinda strange
That's the thing, if time is money then you ain't got the time for change
You can practice swinging but we bucking with big rounds if you drive in range
I know you bluffing
You wanna get loaded, my nigga?
Well, load 'em up
I told him "run it"
Extended clips, that shit bananas
Well, let's see if this K can hold a hundred!
They say "Nice guys finish last"
Yo' bitch say "white guys finish fast"
You finna lie
You gotta face it, you've been surpassed
Somebody got Monopoly on your property, you done got replaced by Virginia's Ave
You from where my nigga?
You from the south or the east coast, just pick one worthy
I don't care if he country or grimy I do son dirty
You gon' lose and I know you ain't plan to
I'm your favorite battle rapper nigga, I do what you can't do
Town Bizness, nigga!
Round 1
You might also like[Round 1: Bigg K]
I give Pass a round with a brown Sig'
Let him smoke a Winston
I came to put the paws on him like he go to Clemson
Thousand dollar hand gun, I'm in pole position
I dropped a band on the barrel: it ain't Prohibition!
The coalition, kill whoever goes against him
They yell "K" in LA, Vallejo to Richmond
VA to The Bay, my name known and mentioned
I caught the BART with a maggie, word to Homer Simpson
Brody, listen, I'm no game like phony pimping
You lightweight nobody like bony women
Middle Eastern Drake, little homie tripping
Y'all brought Degrassi Tyson: I'm 'bout to punch him through the whole dimension!
Pass is through, murder when I'm passing through
Left and right, the second hype, get you snapped in two
Are you Arabian, Afghan or from Kathmandu?
Once we done scrapping you gon' be black - and blue!
I said who want a sleeper
I brung that ether to come and heat ya
Get clocked or lead to the last shot: that's a buzzer-beater!
Puffing reefer
Cutting a Tina or that Justin Bieber
Rock his ass, one hit dropping Pass...like a receiver with the butterfingers!
Fucking divas, y'all stay at home! I gotta come and see ya
Bombing like I'm underneath the submariners from Korea
I do it all and switch it up for the unbelievers
When I lay it down, I mix it up: that's jungle fever
You don't want it and your man don't want it neither
Your fam' will get a dummy: that's Cousin Skeeter
I'll pull this tre in the club and get to spraying a scrub like oven cleaner
Flex and get a Big Kap without The Tunnel feature
Glock with the copper toppers the grand chrome nine
Out the drop with the blocka-blocka and paint his whole side
Or treat this Gualla-Gualla like we was locked and I take his phone time
So you get out of pocket, patna, and I'mma make you hold mine!
[Round 2: Pass]
Battle rap is your whole life
This Town Business, that .45 my nigga that's fo' life
So when you see that scraper mobbing down the street at night with no lights
Nigga, that's YO' life!
You see the cycle?
Don't be pussy! You need a cycle?
You just a clone growing up to get smoked in rotation: repeat the cycle
I said, battle rap is your whole life white boy
You FAR from Eminem!
You get smoked like a Newport
In Norfolk he ain't Virginia Slim
But if bullets enter him in the interim that's the end of him
Whistle shift your position like the wind on a pendulum
Tell the truth, you very non violent
There's sharks in these waters, these are Farallon Islands
All-black, suited up: I got Farrakhan's stylist
Yo' bitch been around every block: she got marathon mileage!
You got funk? Then bring your boys through
But they gon' disappoint too, I don't know the point to
Serve you with the nickle you the one I point to
But if you serving with the nickle it's a lil' bag like .2
What you hustling for lil' pennies?
Jealous ones still envy?
How the fuck y'all got Bobby from King of The Hill with me?
Oh wait, no, is that Cartman?
Then I'm in the South, park and he leak like spilled Henny
Trying to find K, he in the hood dead, they said he killed Kenny
He need a better day, that fuck shit just like your wack material and we don't let it play
Scratch the serial we'll .38 Special K
Ketamine, brain swole, got you up outta reality that's the main goal
Mind out of your body, dig your grave that's K hole
You complaining on the time limits, fine geek, quit crying diva
Y'all watch me clock you, now I'm the time keeper
I get your bitch brains without talking, now I'm a mind reader
You look like you one donut away from diabetes
You look like you and your family pray to Baby White Jesus
You look like you following blind leaders
We'll jump you take your shoes, hands on kicks like we design sneakers
You need an incubator for that ink you made up
You think too basic
That cut and dried pieces that formula got you underdeveloped, what you trying to feed us nigga?
Nigga you gon' lose, and I know you ain't plan to
I'm your bitch favorite battle rapper nigga, I do what you can't do
Town Business nigga, round two
[Round 2: Bigg K]
What's all the fronting for? I'll smack your lips
Pull his neck like it's tug of war and drag your shit
The knee will have you seeing stars like Kaepernick on an acid trip
Pick you up and drop Pass on the shoulder, like traffic hit
Pass legit, who you think you rapping wit?
If I have to flip you'll hate to hear it like fashion tips
I grab the grip, air it out like a bag of chips
50 percent clown, but that ain't the half of it
Pass a bitch!
We hitters, gun coppers, heat flippers
.22 with a plastic handle: cheap liquor
I don't speak wit' ya
Better hope the sweeper will be wit' ya
I got a trick that'll put Pass deep as flee flicker
Remember, I give you the beats and remix ya
Get rocked back and forth for what you throw up, I'll sea sick ya
Got the fo' pound, ten toes down til' these feet blister
Or the tre pull his top back like a TV dinner
We street members
When I wrote this, I was sellling 'caine
That's on every pack like cellophane
Coast to coast I show him the ropes, let him hang
I'll wrap one around your neck like Nelly chain
He a hella lame, washed up, mega plain
You ain't even miss your boat, that shit never came
They know I battle for the bag, I don't tell 'em names
You was on the list at last: Etta James!
Let it bang, if it don't make green I'm color blind
Still if it's beef, OKC, the Thunder flying
My clique on the creep
We gon' spray three if it's one of mine
That stick on the seat, like no AC in the summertime
I love the grind, in the rain with a zip on me
Out there getting nicks off me til my kicks soggy
Whatchu gon' say? I'm from Virginia, so I'm racist? Bitch hardly!
I'm going Beast Mode and sending y'all back to The Town, that's a Lynch party
Fuck outta here yo

[Round 3: Pass]
So whatchu sayin', you not racist?
Is that how nigga's trill?
Do you really think King Of The Dot got judges that cheat to give ICE the chain cause he black? That's how you really feel?
Damn a brotha can't get nothin' without a white boy somewhere getting bitter still
Man we remember Emmett Till
Getting love from some white folks just might get a nigga killed
Nigga chill
Are you serious bitch?
You on some weird Alex Jones conspiracy shit
This cat is special
Pistol whip you, leave your Earth flat and your head wrapped with metal
Oh you bugging
I knew something was up with this chubby country bumpkin when you was just a newcomer
What?
You ain't color blind but it ain't enough y'all stole the whole culture, you got the Blues Brother
Black man get green, white boy turn red we see your true colors
You a sucka
Pick a play, I ain't finna say you act black but you picked the parts you wanna immitate
Had to Taylor Swift your way to get some pay
Crust to dust, white face turn to white powder, you sniffing yay'
This white boy can bomb if y'all gas him; Tim McVey
You really mad the champ is black or you just didn't have shit to say?
Cause right in that moment you went from Bigg K to Bigot K
Run up and your man will be done up and damaged, it ricochets
Your son will be standing in front of a cannon it's picture day
"Oh Pass, why you over here bringing up the race?"
Well you did it in the first fucking place, get out my fucking face
You look like you got a confederate flag in the back of yo' pickup truck just in case
What a waste
Yeah I said it, I'm from the OAK, don't play K
If I'm tripping out in VA, K, I ain't out on vaca'
You say you from Virginia, you ain't really fucking with the KKK?
Bitch you racist I'll hit your face with the K, kay K?
I'm bringing a whole new definition to the meaning of "great white hope"
Say some dumb shit, one hit, numb your face like coke
Got your nose runny
You talk when niggas rap, that shit is so funny
But when you face the Wolf, you froze dummy
This white bitch love that ICE shit he a snow bunny
But wait, you losing my nigga, I knew you ain't plan to
Town Business you do what you fucking can't do
Town fucking Business

[Round 3: Bigg K]
Just like I thought, it's no wonder why the west stay loving you
When the crowd a bunch of rich kids and SJW's
That sit at home behind they phone, tweeting they thoughts and cry about
Cause y'all scared to leave ya home, kill a cop and die about it
Right? Right?
Ride out wit a chopper, it ain't the Harley store
And if you miss, swing back through, it ain't a doggy door
I'm in the hooptie, doing 25 fast, it ain't Yom Kippur
Letting it ring out in the bucket, but I ain't mop the floor
I'm selling out of what I got, 'bout to cop some more
We dropping off that H bomb like atomic war
You playing with the skrill, that's some shit I pop him for
If Daylyt on the bill, it better be a Hopsin tour
You ever been locked before? Interrogated, had to stay tall?
Them questions that have you shaking 'bout them Magic 8 Balls?
Now it's something real in the safe if them crackers may call
I'll win an appeal on a case that make 'em pass a state law
I hate y'all
You get an L for going after K
This gun'll cave in your house, the cro-magnon way
I'll make your folks say, "Why he do the bro Pass this way?"
I left a whole blade in your throat passage way
I'm pulling rubber grips like parking breaks
Right next to your mug; coffee cakes
Snapping is not unusual; Carlton Banks
Put this extension on a room, I need office space
I'll knock off his face, he drift in a hypoxic state
That's something you gotta watch like carb' intake
Every battle is punchlines, I won't stop the pace
That's why y'all can't touch slime like toxic waste
I'm too much, all that yelling will get you touched
Dome shot, hit sir up (syrup) in his melon cause he a fruit cup
Or stomp your face through the concrete, scuff the shoes up
I'll push your grill through the street like a food truck
Cause you at home with yo' bitch watching soap operas
I'm uptown negotiating with the coke shoppers
Mac-10's, SK's; both choppers
Right hooks, left hooks; show stoppers