**Translated Lyrics:**

[Verse 1]  
I know many of us are filled with rage  
But I've stayed calm up to this point  
To break free from all the filth and mess  
I’m about to explode, I’ll surf on this beat!  
See how I ride the waves with your own eyes!  
If you can’t see me, then your eyes are blind!  
Put on some headphones, turn up the speaker! (turn it up)  
Listen to my message, examine it closely  
When I speak fast, my rhymes dance ballet  
No one can interfere with me  
You’ve really annoyed me, I’m fed up with this treatment  
Those around me are haunting me, we’re on different wavelengths, get that in your heads  
Accept defeat and bow down to me  
Because my mind is superior, I’m on top  
Come on, don’t stop, start picking at my brain  
Your tongues never tire of saying stupid things  
Yeah, I’ve devoured all of you and your dreams (ayy)  
I’ve torn you apart like a monster (ayy)  
Getting involved with me is pure madness (ayy ayy ayy)  
There’s no turning back, it’s a dead-end street  
Know this like “Good to Know” by Ais Ezhel  
Listen to me (listen)  
Show a little respect  
Or I’ll throw you down to the bottom of the well  
Even if the beat stops, I’ll never be silent, ha  
You’re just a sick fool  
Don’t hesitate, go ahead and take this medicine  
Oh, I’ll write a prescription that’s solid  
And there’s just one rule, man:  
If you stick to my rhymes word for word  
Rest assured, all your pain will pass

[Chorus]  
Yeah, oo oo!  
You all throw shade at me, but  
I think you believe I can’t handle it  
You expect an explanation from me  
I can’t hold back without giving you an answer  
I can’t sleep until I bury you deep in the ground  
Inside me, a fiery rebellion ignites  
The thoughts in my head are a raging waterfall

[Verse 2]  
Uh, the song isn’t over yet  
Uh, Rhode, come spin the wheel  
Let it tick like a clock (ayy)  
Let the whole city groan when they hear my diagnosis (yeah)  
My voice will be the remedy for your troubles  
But you’ll definitely throw shade at that too  
I used to be everyone’s friend  
But time has passed, and now I’m an enemy to most of you  
(But) I’m not regretful  
My tongue is a true expert, sharp as a blade  
You’ve made me so angry, I’ll give you a shave!  
The match has started, if you’re shy, then run  
Because I’ll throw a stone at your head, it’ll hit you right between the eyes “bang!”  
“Ah!” Don’t cry, breaking your heart is my duty  
Look at me, open your eyes, come challenge me, try to surpass me, get involved  
I’ll slowly plant this medicine in your mind  
If you’re going to throw shade at me, then run!

[Chorus]  
Yeah, oo oo!  
You all throw shade at me, but  
I think you believe I can’t handle it  
You expect an explanation from me  
I can’t hold back without giving you an answer  
I can’t sleep until I bury you deep in the ground  
Inside me, a fiery rebellion ignites  
The thoughts in my head are a raging waterfall