**Translated Lyrics:**

[Intro: Maitre Gims]  
We don’t pretend to be role models for the kids  
Or for anyone else!  
We just want to say that... the bridge to success  
Is a fragile bridge  

[Verse 1: Maître Gims]  
I asked for forgiveness without it being granted  
I asked for my path without anyone showing me  
I traded my studies for a platinum record  
Knowing full well that sooner or later your audience will trample you  
I dreamed big, I have guts, I have talent  
I stay on guard, I’m just a man  
They capture my image in 7D Canon  
I do all this for myself, for those who doubt, and for my mom  
I lost my mind! (I lost my mind)  
I left school! (I left school)  
If only you knew (If only you knew)  
All the pain I keep inside (All the pain I keep inside)  

[Chorus: Maître Gims]  
This is my direction!  
I lost my mind, without giving up or lowering my arms  
No news, battery low, curse  
From now on, I move forward, this is my direction  
My direction  

[Verse 2: Lefa]  
I fled the ringing, the noise of chairs  
I was looking for other kinds of wealth  
From Anne Frank's diary to Bridget's  
I never liked reading since I was  
12 years old, despite the scribbles, I scratch the paper  
This is my direction, I haven’t scattered  
Rejected more than once, back against the wall  
Too proud to ask for help from welfare  
The streets as family, the stage as my goal  
Held back by the sons of shhh...  
I remember that at first we didn’t even want to touch money  
It was rough when we all crammed at Blanc’s place  
You know BatiPro, Crit, Selpro  
I wrote in the dark before going to break my back  
Today, all of this wouldn’t make sense  
Without all these sacrifices, without all this patience  

[Chorus: Maître Gims]  
This is my direction!  
I lost my mind, without giving up or lowering my arms  
No news, battery low, curse  
From now on, I move forward, this is my direction  
My direction  

[Verse 3: Maska]  
I remember the clashes, the rap contests, the struggle  
In the street, they rap in droves, even skipping meals  
For a 16-bar verse, my guys will confront you, only the kick calms us  
Our voices, our hands rise when the dirty cops belittle us  
The dream is at our feet so we sleep head to toe  
We swim in riches but our lips stay dry  
I want to live off my passion because all jobs displease me  
We sought only recognition, we didn’t want to talk about cash  
Now we push out the struggle even if our past shelters it  
It wants to buy cars, attack the U.S. market  
If we’ve struggled so much, it’s to be stocked at the finish line  
To properly stake the street monsters who wanted to capsize us  
But I quit that job to better move mountains  
As a result, my faith wanes, my faults are countless  
Don’t seek too much light, the sun burns your skin  
Yeah, success smokes you, barely you can handle it  

[Chorus: Maître Gims]  
This is my direction!  
I lost my mind, without giving up or lowering my arms  
No news, battery low, curse  
From now on, I move forward, this is my direction  
My direction  

[Verse 4: Barack Adama]  
Forget the job... a vocational diploma doesn’t pay  
With the crew, for rap, we stay up late  
Despite overdrafts, the bad bosses  
I dropped everything to conquer the stages, let’s go!  
A suicidal project, it either works or we bail  
And you follow us if you love it, bro  
Determined, we head to the front without armor  
And the most down-to-earth say we’re crashing into a wall (Aah!)  
The folks don’t know what I’m doing, they say I’m sleeping  
They think their son only lives outside  
Not knowing that this little brat is preparing gold records  
And all those who neglect him, well, they’re more than wrong  
I know where I’m going, not sure if I’ll be welcomed  
I’m not invited and I’m accompanied by UFOs  
I’m heading towards glory and problems  
Music is a woman with issues, but damn, I love her too much  

[Chorus: Maître Gims]  
This is my direction!  
I lost my mind, without giving up or lowering my arms  
No