The lyrics you've provided are in Portuguese. Here’s the English translation, maintaining the meaning, tone, and emotional impact of the original:

---

If you see me on the street, cross over, if I see you, your head will be opened. Opened, like your girl’s Tcheka (a slang term for a certain type of intimate area), they get all wet as soon as they feel the comb invading their space. They like the guys who look like criminals; I don’t fit that mold because I’m not on that level. I won’t rob you, maybe kill you, sell your organs on the deep web, buy new weapons. You’ll never see me on the street vulnerable; you think I’m wearing a beanie, but you’re really mistaken. I’m always armed, giving you the hint, don’t meet me where you think I’m your friend; I’ve already killed you, damn it, I’m your enemy.

- You’re all hyped up, that’s a lack of THC in your mind, brother, Tetrahydrocannabinol, three little words that leave you mentally weak. I’m already here punching, man, grab the pipe or the bong and light it up in Babylon.

Pipe my ass, I already said I don’t smoke crack, bongs are for fags, I prefer the old traditional smoking brown. I don’t sniff cocaine, don’t need cards, my pockets are full of bills, and of girls in our basements. My mom told me to try to change, find a new hobby that isn’t killing. Maybe knitting, playing, or even collecting... So I discovered the perfect hobby for me, I went after the bodies of the girls I left around. I took the heads of all of them, put them in an incubator. Now my attic is full of heads of other people; I like to go there and imagine what they would be doing if they were living on Earth. I’m thriving, I’m a depressed guy, if you look at me, I’ll start shooting. Don’t stare at me, man, you don’t know me; I’m not that guy from the internet. If you want an autograph, you have to kiss me. And if you have a damn dick, you’ll have to suck me. The girls count likes; I’m counting bullets to invade the police base. I count skulls in my attic; each new skull is a new photo on Instagram. I’m so happy, man, the collection is growing. And what am I gaining? Gaining fame, every song released is a new girl in my bed. And what else? A new head to fill the void. Damn. 17, 18, 19 heads, the girls are counting, deluded while I deceive the same ones.

June 27, 2017, 16 years old, it’s freezing as hell, and I’m on the street smoking a blunt. The cold freezes my fingers, the weed relaxes my brain, so I’m making plans to get more blowjobs. Maybe a new lyric will help with that, maybe a sweet lyric will get me a new girl. I think it’s wrong to force girls to suck my dick, but damn, I’m not your first, so suck it, suck it, you whore. Because I don’t have a condom and I’m not going to stick it in your ass, you AIDS-ridden piece of shit, you asked for this. The blowjob was good, but I prefer to be the only one who knows about it. She even had the nerve to ask for a kiss; damn, you just choked on my cock. The police are coming; I don’t know if it’s for me, but I’m already running. Geep listening to Mobb Deep, maybe I’ll stop at the pharmacy and buy some condoms, and on the way, I’ll fuck some girls. I’m not a rapist; if she moans, it’s because she liked it. Admit you fell in love; my raging cock conquered you. Now it’s too late, it’s gone, greet daddy, who is our "Lord," bless you. Yes, man, you can believe it, I’m so high that I’m escaping the inevitable. There’s no point in running from a curse that’s cursing me; if I fall, it’ll be shooting, it’ll be killing. I won’t surrender; if you corner me, you won’t find me alive. Tell my mom she’s not to blame for this. 

It’s raining, it’s cold, we’re in winter. You can tell that bastard of my dad that when he dies, we’ll meet in hell. You sperm donor bastard, if you weren’t going to help my mom, why did you stick it in her hole? If I had the chance to go back in time