**Translated Lyrics:**

[Refrain: Green Montana]  
I change my enemies but never my camp, I'm at Fendi when the urge hits me  
Do you see me coming? Do you feel it? Do you see me coming? Grah-boom  
There are Percocets working in my stomach, I can't give it to you, I have to sell it  
Yeah, suck me off, we’re right up front, don’t open the door or I’ll get ahead of you  

[Verse 1: Green Montana]  
Glock 40 that I keep with me, I know them well, they’re not with me  
She talks about you and sleeps with me, I fear nothing, nah, I have God with me  
They have R, they can’t invest, they act tough, they’re not invincible  
Number one, that’s why I insist, making this cash is what I push for  
And I prefer when they’re out of my sight, success is just down the street  
You don’t have a dime, I can feel it and see it, I burn the stage, I’ve lost my voice  
What I was told, I haven’t forgotten, without money, I can’t sleep  
Filling the SACEM, huh, I don’t have time to deal with that  
And it’s strange, we broke through, I think, becoming a millionaire, bitch, do you believe me?  
The Hennessy is destroying my liver, calmly, I sit my ass on the roof  
The Prada shirt is made only of silk because they’ll never return all they owe me  
Eighteen carats, that’s the ring on my finger, pure Hennessy, nigga, that’s what I drink  

[Refrain: Green Montana]  
I change my enemies but never my camp, I'm at Fendi when the urge hits me  
Do you see me coming? Do you feel it? Do you see me coming? Grah-boom  
There are Percocets working in my stomach, I can't give it to you, I have to sell it  
Yeah, suck me off, we’re right up front, don’t open the door or I’ll get ahead of you  

[Verse 2: SDM]  
Everything’s real, bitch, stop dreaming, I see the sky setting, rising  
I’m like Ky'-Ky' in the hallway, it’s fast, I’m 92i, to death, to life  
Well, what you do, we’ve seen it over and over, I’m dead under Jack but deep down, I’m living again  
Watch out for you when the demon wakes up, I see them trembling, I reveal my talent (Eh)  
A lot of shitty rappers (Shitty)  
Hit, I sell, your rapper buys, what’s yours, I won’t buy it, I’ll snatch it  
It’s plated that you have on your chain, you don’t have cash, give the leash, I’ll walk your bitch (Dirty dog, buh)  
Cold metal if you act tough (Grah, grah)  
Heated blade, I cut the shit, I’m simple, I have some crack on the stove  
In my hood, fallen angels fly, you just bought it, I already had it  
What do you mean? Elaborate, you want the showcase? Prepare the envelope  
I take the free kick, top corner, I wrap it, he who lives will see (9.2.1.4.0)  

[Refrain: Green Montana & SDM together]  
I change my enemies but never my camp, I'm at Fendi when the urge hits me  
Do you see me coming? Do you feel it? Do you see me coming? Grah-boom (Oh-oh-oh)  
There are Percocets working in my stomach (Yeah), I can't give it to you, I have to sell it (Grah, grah, grah)  
And suck me off (Grah, grah, grah), we’re right up front, don’t open the door or I’ll get ahead of you (Han-han-han)  

[Outro: SDM]  
Bro, it’s real  
Oh-oh-oh-oh  
NMR, bitch  
Ocho, Ocho, Ocho