**Translated Lyrics:**

[Intro: Mucho Muchacho & Kamikaze]  
Hey, there are a lot of fools out there talking trash, you know?  
They're messing it up real good...  
(Who’s talking trash? Who?)

[Intro: Skeep Rango]  
And now what? You can't handle me...  
And now what? You can't, can't...  
And now what? You can't handle me...  
And now what? You can't, can't...  
And it's that you can't, you can't...  
You can't, you can't, you can't  
And it's that you can't, you can't...  
You can't, you can't, you can't  
You can't with Nafri, you can't  
You can't, not even with Kami, you can't  
You can't, with El Meswyas, you can't  
You can't, nor can you with Paco  
You can't, nor can you with Jotaman either  
Because you already know, yes, that you can't handle me  
I have more blood on my path than a Tarantino film  
My words are like bullets, if I shoot, I’ll take you down  
And where are they? I don’t see them, where are they?  
And where are they? I don’t see them, where are they?  
And where are they? I don’t see them, where are they?  
And where are they? I don’t see them, where are they?  

[Verse 1: Kamikaze]  
It smells bad, I think someone suffers from mouth diarrhea  
What do you have in your head?  
As Nafa said, pray that like chocolate, the thick horde arrives  
And let’s be clear, no weird stuff  
Hardcore Hip-Hop in its most glorious greatness  
I want the real ones to join me at my table  
Because the world is boiling, so enjoy... (thanks) You’re welcome  
The clesa returns with firmness  
You can call me that, because I’m the real deal  
Don’t tell me your life or your sorrows, your belongings don’t interest me. Give me facts, know how to be, or else disappear  
Go back home and call me the one who decorates  
I’ll call you the one who kisses  
Then call your buddies and tell them your story  
I understand that you’ll hardly explain the ridiculous feeling of being a loser, fool  
Anyway, you have to be a bit spaced out to face the  
Personification of skill  
A bit annoying to stick to a guy who looks the other way while you talk  
And on top of that, when you grab the mic  
Just like even your buddies yawn  
A bit dazed to spread rumors about a guy you don’t even know  
For a moment of attention and a moment of toughness  
That quickly disappears and in some cases reappears  
In the same characters but in other circles linked to homeland, race, and purity  
So what the hell are you talking about the one who stands true to his move, loyal to the game?  
You played, right?  
So what now, idiot?  

[Chorus: Skeep Rango] (x7)  
And now what? You can't handle me...  
... And now what?

[Verse 2: Supernafamacho]  
Constant attitude of attack, whether I take or not, the game is mine  
Sorry dude, but you’re facing the bionic, rich kid whose mic has twisted the Kio towers  
I’m a corsair sailing seas and oceans  
Stealing fools' dreams daily  
I don’t know your name, you’re not a worthy adversary  
For moves of that type, talk to my secretary  
If the rhyme is a duchess, I’m the fucking duke, Captain!  
My crew applies the techniques of decapitation better than Sky-Walker, Luke  
So what about you? Huh? (What about you?)  
Whenever the vandal group of the Uppercase J lurks in your circle  
Watch out! I’ve been playing this game for so long that I have more contacts than fucking glue  
That’s the deal, kid, that’s the story  
Attitude and aptitude if the one who spoke was you  
Now you’ll know why my club is famous, known, and respected from Cádiz to Kandanchú  
From Iraq to Honolulu, from Quebec to Kathmandu  
Because when it’s time to hit, look kid, I hit harder and better than super glue  

[Verse 3: Paco King]  
I’m Paco  
Remember that guy you tried to make believe that records aren’t made without giving a little, just a little?  
Making me believe that my move would be submerged in the mud  
I have rank, I’m back here, I attack  
And take that, son of a bitch, because I won’t sell myself like a mercenary or prostitute