The provided text is in German and appears to be an excerpt from a classical work, likely related to the "Iliad" or "Odyssey" by Homer. Below is the English translation of the lyrics while preserving the meaning, tone, and emotional impact of the original text.

---

**Translated Lyrics:**

Dear, because you remind me of that sorrow,
Which we brave Achaeans endured in the land of Troy;
When we wandered with our ships on the dark, surging sea,
Searching for spoils wherever Achilles led us;
Now we fought around the great city of mighty Priam:
There fell the bravest of all Achaeans!
There lies Ajax, a hero like Ares; there also Achilles;
There his friend Patroclus, wise as the immortals;
There my beloved son Antilochus, brave and noble,
Swift among all Achaeans in running, and swift in battle!
And we have also suffered many other woes!
What mortal man could name them all?
Even if you stayed five years and six in succession,
And inquired about all the sufferings of the noble Achaeans; you would
Grow weary and return home before finishing.
For nine years we exhausted all the tricks of war against them;
And hardly did Cronion (Zeus) accomplish it!
There was no one in the army who matched him in cunning;
The noble Odysseus devised all the strategies of war, your father; if indeed you are truly
Of his lineage. - I am filled with wonder at the sight!
Your speech resembles his entirely; one would not believe
That a younger man could speak so well!
Back then, neither I nor the noble Odysseus spoke apart,
Neither in counsel nor in the assembly of the people;
But we both deliberated with wisdom
And care, how best the welfare of the Achaeans might prosper.
When we finally destroyed the high city of Priam,
We returned to our ships, but God separated the Greeks.
Then Cronion resolved in his heart the saddest return
For the Argive host; for they were not all wise,
Nor just; therefore so many met with dreadful fate.
Behold, the blue-eyed daughter of mighty Zeus divided,
Full of vengeful wrath, the two sons of Atreus.
They called the army to a general assembly;
But wrongly, not according to order, as the sun declined,
And the sons of the Greeks came, intoxicated by wine.
Now they presented why they had gathered the peoples.
Menelaus urged the whole army of Achaeans
To sail home across the wide back of the sea,
But his counsel displeased Agamemnon entirely: he wished
To keep the people there and offer sacrifices,
To appease the terrible wrath of the offended goddess.
Fool! He did not know that his endeavor was in vain!
For the anger of the eternal gods does not change quickly.
Thus they stood both, exchanging fierce words;
And the beautifully armored Greeks rose up
With endless noise, divided by double opinion.
Both rested the night, full of brooding resentment;
For Zeus prepared punishment for the Achaeans' folly.
Early we drew half the ships into the sacred sea tide,
Brought the goods aboard, and the beautifully girded women.
But the other half of the host remained on the shore
There, with Atreus' son Agamemnon, the shepherd of the people.
We, meanwhile, hastily set sail from there,
And a heavenly being cleared the vast waters.
When we reached Tenedos, all sacrificed to the gods,
Longing for home; but still Zeus hindered the return;
For the wrathful sent forth anew destructive discord.
Some turned back the equally-oared ships,
Led by the brave, resourceful Odysseus,
So that they might please Atreus' son Agamemnon.
But I fled ahead with the fleet that followed me;
For I sensed that a heavenly being was imposing evil.
Tydeus' warlike son also fled, urging his companions.
Finally, Menelaus, the brown-haired, came to us,
As we were still deliberating in Lesbos about the course:
Whether we should steer above the mountainous Chios toward Psyria,
And keep those to the left;
Or below Chios, at the foot of stormy Mimas.
And we asked the god to give us a sign; and he
Indicated to us, and commanded us to steer straight through the sea to Euboea
So that we might quickly escape destruction.
Now a whispering wind blew into the sails of the ships;
And they swiftly passed through the paths of the fish, and arrived
By night at Geraistos. Here we burned to Poseidon
Many thighs of bulls in thanks for the fortunate sea voyage.
Now it was the fourth day when in Argos with his companions
