**Translated Lyrics:**

The atmosphere is treacherous, my heart bleeds profusely  
Usually, it’s just an ordinary day before your death  
Let Lacrim in!  
Need some plastic, a stormy day is fantastic  
A detonator, and I’ll drop it right in the middle of Bastille  
I know I’m right, don’t say doubt doesn’t exist anymore  
How to know who to shoot when they’re all sons of...

[Verse 1]  
I need her, my mother is my oxygen  
I won’t let my son down, my name is etched in his genes  
And then, you become patient even if it’s not your job  
Crazy stuff, for him I’d multiply attacks  
Need to hook up with friends, no, no, it’s the opposite  
I want one who listens, calms me, and understands me  
And I don’t care if there are orgy parties  
Need to kiss a beautiful woman and caress softness, yeah  
Need calm in my life, keep your opinion  
I want the islands, no need for a 4x4 in my city  
I’ll always have respect for my neighborhood but  
I’m tired of living with eyes glued to the back of my head, man  
Yeah, maybe I’ll have less than them, but I don’t want to stay still  
It’s like doing a spin on ice hockey  
And after all, if I have an Arab face  
In this world, it’s money that does everything, damn it

[Bridge]  
(Excerpt from the film Mesrine)  
- Do you still intend to escape again?  
- Mr. President, with your scarf of 101 Dalmatians, you must know that when you live in hell, escaping is a right. I’d even say it’s a duty and moreover, a business!

[Verse 2]  
We need a little getaway after a false alarm  
Let’s go spend ten days in Spain to blow twenty salaries  
From smoking too much, the anger no longer affects me  
A secret shared by three is well kept when two are dead  
Nowadays, don’t say doubt doesn’t exist anymore  
How to know who to shoot when they’re all sons of bitches?  
You know, apart from mine, rap is nonsense, yes  
They’re fine on the street but only suck the bottle  
Provoking me has been going on for a long time  
I haven’t changed, I still screw the mother of anyone who wants to hear it  
And it’s normal, I don’t wait to be pardoned  
On board a G-Class with a sawed-off shotgun  
Here it’s the law of the caliber against the archer  
Don’t leave DNA, a good alibi will get you released  
No, what we reflect isn’t the videos  
Life in the halls, no, we don’t give a damn about others’ opinions

[Bridge]  
(Excerpt from Mesrine)  
- So I’m public enemy number one! Huh! But that’s nonsense! I’m the enemy of a public service! The banks, oh yes! That’s right, I rob them. And then, well, she doesn’t like me but when I rob a bank, I don’t feel like I’m breaking the law, just stealing from someone more of a thief than I am!

[Verse 3]  
It disgusts me to see cousins slumped  
Who’ve fallen into alcohol with the zen in the machine  
Little by little they become ghosts  
While others go on trips  
On every field, you have vultures and the royal eagle  
The president doesn’t care about his clients  
Those who live on love and fresh water no longer smile at each other  
Overworked in the shit, yes  
So I admit since then, Lacrim has become the white shark swimming in the sea  
Need everything or maybe  
Need nothing, in fact  
Need faith, I might die tomorrow  
Need everything, or maybe, nothing, in fact  
Need faith, I might die tomorrow  
Need everything or maybe  
Need nothing, in fact  
Need faith, I might die tomorrow  
Need everything or maybe, nothing, in fact  
Need faith, I might die, tomorrow, tomorrow, tomorrow...