Hello guys, and welcome to the channel. I hope you like it and that you want to subscribe as well. Enjoy the video

[ 1. GUENTHER HAAS RETURNED - FEAT. PÉREZ ]

[Intro:]
Guenther! Guenther the man!
Guenther! Wanker!

[Chorus (x2)]
Guenther is back in business (business), always have to pose for pictures (pictures)
You know I'm getting bitches, Ferrari is on my wishlist (Ya!)
Guenther is back in business (business), K-Mag is just a lil' kid (Idiot)
Sketchy boy but won't admit this, and Grosjean is just an idiot (Wanker!)

[Verse 1:]
Fucking Guenther is the fucking man, motherfucking
Guenther is a heavy boy - hit the beat like a trucker
My vocal chords are as good as Mr. Joe Cocker's
Winning races every year? Wanker, it is not us!
Not yet - listen close, little rockstar
Guenther is the man when it comes to making hot cars
Not hot wheels! Lil' Romain - you have fucked Haas!
Why make it look like at Haas we ain't got class?

Guenther is the biggest boy in the team, wanker!
Fuck your money, little boy - little wanker banker!
You are kindergarten racer, who thinks he's a dancer!
I call you all the time, crasher, you will not answer!!
And Kevin Critic, what a dumb race driver!
I got bars for you, serve them like a slider!
Guenther's head is on fire - Ghost Rider!
In your helmet I have put a giant spider!
You might also like[Chorus (x2)]
Guenther is back in business (business), always have to pose for pictures (pictures)
You know I'm getting bitches, Ferrari is on my wishlist (Ya!)
Guenther is back in business (business), K-Mag is just a lil' kid (Idiot)
Sketchy boy but won't admit this, and Grosjean is just an idiot (Wanker!)

[Verse 2 - Sergio 'Checo' Pérez]
If you ask me who is dangerous, man
I will tell you Grosjean and the bad Magnussen!
I got a loco pace, ese - My car bailando, baby!
I'm fun like Lando, ese - Bad Luck like Nando, ese!

Pinche Chupador de huevos, porque no chupas mi tortilla
- (Fucking ball sucker, why don't you suck my tortilla)
Cómo chingados sigues en la Fórmula Uno, güey solo chocas contra murros
- (How the fuck are you still in F1? You only crash into walls)
Guenther, the solution is to fire them, bingo!
Pinche Italiano estás más pendejo que tú equipo gringo
- (Fucking Italian, you're more stupid than your American team.)

[Verse 2 - Guenther Steiner]
Yes, I agree! Freaking dangerous! Look what made me do!
You just made me toss my phone on the ground! I am angry
Because I have signed 2 fucking drivers slower than their team boss!

[Chorus]
Guenther is back in business (business), always have to pose for pictures (pictures)
You know I'm getting bitches, Ferrari is on my wishlist (Ya!)
Guenther is back in business (business), K-Mag is just a lil' kid (Idiot)
Sketchy boy but won't admit this, and Grosjean is just an idiot (Wanker!)
Guenther is back in business (business), always have to pose for pictures (pictures)
You know I'm getting bitches, Ferrari is on my wishlist (Ya!)
Guenther is back in business (business), K-Mag is just a lil' kid (Idiot)
Sketchy boy but won't admit this, and Grosjean is just an idiot
[Interlude:]
You are listening to 107.0, Radio Haas Team
This is the fucking Guenther Steiner Gangsta Rap Mixtape Vol. 1
Hope you enjoy it, wanker!

[ 2. GANGSTA GUENTHER RAP MADE ME DO IT - FEAT. K-MAG & ROB KUBICA ]

[Intro - K-Mag & Gangsta Guenther]
K-Mag:
Ja, kører det, kører det? Ja!
- (Yeah, is it working, is it working? Yeah!)
Det er Kevin Magnussen her!
- (It's Kevin Magnussen!)
Lad os vise dem hvordan det skal gøres!
- (Let's show them how it's done!)
Lad os vise dem hvordan den skal køres!
- (Let's show them how it's run!)

Guenther: Vot de fokk is dat vankor langvedge?!
Kevin: Ah... hold kæft Guenther! Hvad er der med dig?!
(Ah... shut up, Guenther! What is it with you?!)
Guenther: Keven, shot de fokk op, you fokking vankor!
Kevin: Nu går jeg! Farvel!
(I'm going now! Goodbye!)
Guenther: Stupid langvedge
*Door Smashes*
Guenther: Vot in de fokk?
*Beep* *Beep* *Beep* *BRRRRRRR*
Kevin: What?!
Guenther: You do not fokk smash my door! Keven, get the fokk back hier, vee got a song to fucking do!

[Chorus:]
We.. are.. the.. gangster.. team.. in F1
Come.. between.. me.. and.. Guenth.. and you're done!
And Guenther hates it! That's why I always lose it!
I know our drivers have a brain, it is 'bout time they use it!
'Cause little wankers are making us look stupid!
Fuck it, Guenther rap made me do it!

[Verse 1 - K-Mag]
Ja, jeg er Kevin Magnussen!
- (Yup, I'm Kevin Magnussen!)
Presser bilen til det max - fuck, jer er i det snavs igen!
- (Pushing the car to the max - fuck, I'm in the dirt again.)
Efter Renault er Cyril en mand, til hvem jeg aldrig si'r davs igen!
- (After Renault, Cyril's a man I never say "hi" to anymore!)
Chiller I min garage med gangsterbossen og drikker Heineken!
- (Chillin' in my garage with the mob boss while drinking Heineken!)

Siden han sagde "hej min ven - lad mig vise dig vei, min ven!"
- (Since he said "hi, my friend, let me guide you, my friend!")
Har jeg haft det sæde - måske ikke de hurtigste
- (I've had that seat - maybe not the fastest,)
Men det' sgu aldrig slemt at være fast kører for et team, hvor man faktisk savner dem over vinteren
- (But it's not bad to be permanent driver at a team where you actually miss them over the winter)
Med Haas er jeg blevet en tem'lig garvet svend!
- (At Haas I've become an experienced Joe!)

[Verse 2 - Gangsta Guenther]
Thanks a lot, Kevin, for giving me the mic again!
You're quite the driver - we are both quite the mighty men!
What you do in Austria each year could make me smile again!
I refuse to hang on to things that we might have been

For example: Vettel is the man - despite a spin..
Or two.. or many more.. you get it, right? Back in.. Australia 2019 and '18, we cried and binned the race!
Now it's off the calendar - so let's try to win!

[Chorus:]
We.. are.. the.. gangster.. team.. in F1
Come.. between.. me.. and.. Guenth.. and you're done!
And Guenther hates it! That's why I always lose it!
I know our drivers have a brain, it is 'bout time they use it!
'Cause little wankers are making us look stupid!
Fuck it, Guenther rap made me do it!
(RabaRabaRabaRaba!!)

[Verse 3 - Rob Kubica]
It's Robert, motherfucker, on the track I will not bother
With the mother of the failure - I'm tired of being stubborn!
I'll just log on YouTube and find memes and vids by legend Dacha!
Roba don't give fucks so suck a donkey dong without no rubber!

I'm sorry - am I rude? I'm usually kinder dude!
But why'd I dropped a seat in Willy-team? 'Cause Roba boy got screwed!
I'm "RABARABA" - yelling at the mic, 'cause Claire can only lose!
Hah, joined the Alfa-dudes - spaghetti boy, you gotta move!


[ 3. FOKSMASH - EVERYBODY DISS TRACK ]

[Interlude:]
Thank you so much to Kevin and Robert for being extra gangster!
Not it is time for Guenther.. to FOKSMASH!

[Intro:]
Vot de fokk is going on? Finishing 2019, 8th!
Fokking vankors! Kevin, Grosjean, get the fokk over here
Kevin, get on the drums. Romain, give me the bass. Let's get it. Guenther!

[Chorus x2]
I'm Steiner, top of the line. I got a grind and I never go online. (Ah!)
B-b-big boss of the whiner. (wooh) Crash god's making me lose my mind (Awh)
I'm Steiner, top of the line. (Wanker!) Make sure we spend every dime (Fok!)
Take Gene Haas down to the diner, he asks: "Is it all good?" Hah! Kind of... (Hah!)

[Verse:]
How does it feel to be a team boss?
Well, how does it feel to take a team loss?
What kind of question is that?
Motherfucker, get the fuck out of the room, dumb rat

I'm walking around the paddock (hah!), drunk at all times like Haddock (drunk)
Just shut up please, or fuck off. Guenther's hungry, give me a hotdog. (slurp)
I started this team from scratch (scratch)
And Grosjean went out and matched. (matched)
Whatever midfield pace. I had dinner, didn't watch that race. (No!)

But whatever, when I'm there, shit goes bad!
And Gene "Mod" Haas calls me mad!
Ugly wanker! I'm big boss! (Big boss)
You just watch - big boy, don't floss! (Don't floss)
Investors want me, not you!
If you left, we'd not be screwed! (Ahh!)
Look at Zak Brown - ugly wanker!
He could now use him a pretty good banker! (Hah! Fuck that guy! Guenther!)

[Chorus:]
I'm Steiner, top of the line. I got a grind and I never go online. (Ah!)
B-b-big boss of the whiner (wooh), crash god's making me lose my mind (Awh)
I'm Steiner, top of the line. (Wanker!) Make sure we spend every dime (Fok!)
Take Gene Haas down to the diner, he asks: "Is it all good?" Hah! Kind of... (Hah!)

I'm Steiner, top of the line. I got a grind and I never go online. (Ah!)
B-b-big boss of the whiner. (wooh) Crash god's making me lose my mind (Awh)
I'm Steiner, top of the line. (Wanker!) Make sure we spend every dime (Fok!)
Take Gene Haas down to the diner, he asks: "Is it all good?"


[ 4. ROCKSTAR FREESTYLE ]

[Intro:]
Now it is fucking time to do a fucking freestyle!
Let us do it! This is Guenther! 'Cause.. I.. Am..

[Verse:]
Guenther in a big Ferrari! Mami says she wants my body!
Fucking hell, I let her watch me when I cuss out Romain!
Bloody woman thinks I'm sexy man, 'cause I got lots of major plans!
I got an even bigger temper - and a wallet I can spend of
(Well, Gene "Mod" Haas is not as excited maybe...)

Fuck the fucking engineers who can't even deal with the tyres!
Guenther was an engineer and I solved shit by lighting fires!
Williams, get it - 2012, they win and then they burn the car!
Why not fucking listen to the Guenther, when I'm rockstar?!

Wanker! I'm flowing heavy like a fucking tanker!
If you don't like my way, I'ma drop the fucking anchor!
Get Gene on the phone, say "Hello, How are you?"
"I'll close the fucking team if my ideas do not come through!"
(Ha ha ha! Foksmash! Woo!)

[Interlude:]
Thank you, Guenther Steiner, for the immense freestyle and the Foksmash! It is nice to see Guenther paying homage to the old school hip hop he himself was a part of creating!


[ 5. GET RICH ENERGY OR DIE TRYIN' - FEAT. ROB KUBICA & CRASHJEAN ]

[Interlude and Intro:]
Now it is time for a song of Guenther's directly aimed at the people who let him down. It's called "Get Rich Energy Or Die Tryin'"
(Aaaaah, aaaaah, aaaaah, Guenther!)

[Verse 1 - Gangsta Guenther]
Uh, I'm so scared! Uh, I shake and tremble!
And uh, I face a gamble - we fear to disappear!
I am so confused - this deal turned me so hollow!
I wonder is Haas tomorrow? Did Rich seal our fate? (Is it too late?)

(Uh!) The odds are looking blurred! All of Twitter has heard!
I wonder and ponder - and what the hell?!
Rich Energy's poison to the veins!
Will Storey is fucked up in the brain!

[Chorus]
Rab! Rab! RabaRabaRabaRaba!
Now the Haas team is scared - 2019 they were lost
Needed money and the drinks to outpower the Renault
Now what they need most is hope (and Robert of course!)

[Verse 2  - Rob Kubica]
Roba used to drink the fucking Rich Energy
Every day, every week. Make me faster, make me speed!
Make me focused, make me rich! Make me beat the Russell bitch
Bought a ton, bought a lot! Hid it in a secret spot!

Then I read a lot of stuff! (What the fuck even is Rich Energy?)
Can't believe how they fucked Guenther up - now I'm amok!
William Storey - I will beat his ass, mess his beard up
Hack his Twitter - write some career-ending evil stuff!
Jail the boy, by the way - show him what I'm made of!

[Chorus]
Rab! Rab! RabaRabaRabaRaba!
Now the Haas team is scared - 2019 they were lost
Needed money and the drinks to outpower the Renault
Now what they need most is hope (and Robert of course!)
(Ebi-juice... baguette... uhh... lingerie... Grosjean!)

[Verse 3 - Crashjean]
I'm Grosjean, je m'appelle fucking "Crash Machine"
I wish you could see the speed I carry - wish I had a win!
I'm a good driver - I just complain a lot
Complain all the time, so much I crash - 'cause focus? I do not!
Well, let me tell you 'bout a ridiculous idiot!
William Storey is fucking my brain - boy he's vicious! (Vicious)
We had energy drinks for two days maybe
And he walked around the team and told them all to hate me (What?!)

He gave a little bit of money to Haas. (Haas!)
'Cause, otherwise we couldn't afford the gas! (The gas!)
We need the bread - Haas is a boulangerie! (Boulangerie!)
And if he comes back, it will be a boucherie! (Boucherie)
Only ones we collab with is Ferrari! (Ferrari)
So get mad! In a bunch is all your lingerie! (Lingerie!)
I built Haas! Don't come fuck up mon ami! (Mon ami!)
You sell a scam! Motherfuck, I c'est la vie! (C'est la vie!)

[Chorus]
Rab! Rab! RabaRabaRabaRaba!
Now the Haas team is scared - 2019 they were lost
Needed money and the drinks to outpower the Renault
Now what they need most is hope


[ 6. BACK LUCK FREESTYLE - FEAT ALFONSO ]

[Interlude:]
Thank you so much to Robert and Crashjean for appearing on that song. What an amazing track!
If you are enjoying it, I think you should go subscribe to Sim Dane and put on the notification bell
We are lacking towards the end, so this next song "Bad Luck Freestyle" is gonna be the last one. Cheers!

[Intro - Gangsta Guenther, Alfonso:]
- Guenther: Fucking Guenther and Alfonso on the track together. Go get 'em Alfonso
- Alfonso: I'm Alfonso - Alonso... The good ol' gonzo! (Ya!)

[Verse 1 - Alfonso]
I'm Alfonso - didn't have a lot of fun, bro!
Didn't get the one "oh-so-hard-to-get" damn championship!
I thought each year: "I could have it", ooh
I changed teams six times, can't handle it
I'm so fast and lit, I had plans to quit in '14 after 2 titles
Matched all my rivals - kinda got entitled towards the end

Yeah... it's been a tough ride. Became a tough guy
Now Honda really fucks my choices up, I've been voicing what I shouldn't. Whatever, man, GP2 engine sucked anyway
So I don't give a fuck now. I think back 12 years and just how
I would have been champ. If I stayed at McLaren, but I didn't
Can't even cope with how bad it drove - the '08 Renault and '09 was just a yoke

Ohhh, Alonso doesn't wanna come again
'Cause Renault doesn't even like my plans
And I know, and I know, and I know I burned some bridges
But all things I said, I said in jest

[Verse 2 - Gangsta Guenther]
Well, I don't fucking give a fuck about nobody anymore, really...
What I saw from sponsors and from drivers made the team feel unlucky. Why do bad things happen to the best people?
With all the bad happened to me, one would think I'm evil

Haas deserves 4th place and stability
And a pit crew with a consistent ability
We don't want a situation at the season opener
Like '18 or '19, '17 was much doper!

Guenther has the fucking power, the fuck smash!
I consider renaming the team from Haas to Hash
I'm so tired of dealing with broken doors and crashes
But I'm strong, so Haas will rise from the ashes

[Outro:]
Fucking Guenther. Thank you so much for listening to my mixtape
Please go and subscribe to Sim Dane, press notification on
Best wishes to everybody out there


[ VIDEO OUTRO - SIM DANE ]
Thank you so much for watching. I want to thank all of you for watching, and for subscribing and helping me achieve great things on YouTube. In particular, I would like to thank my Patreons

Once again, thanks everybody! I hope to see you all in the next video. Cheers!
Oh, and please join the Discord Server. Link is in the description. [Echoes]