**Translated Lyrics:**

[Verse 1]  
If at that moment you hadn’t let go  
If at that moment I hadn’t wavered  
If at that moment we hadn’t run away  
Hiding the things we didn’t want each other to see, yeah  
If at that moment we had placed upon each other  
A passionate kiss as if it were the first time  
If at that moment we hadn’t pretended (If at that moment we hadn’t pretended)  
Pretending like nothing hurt us, oh-oh-oh-oh  
If at that moment the world hadn’t been so cruel to two kids  
Not allowing ourselves to feel weak because we’re too used to the thorns  
The wounds that haven’t healed yet, forcing ourselves, no longer knowing how to cry  
And if you hadn’t, and if you hadn’t (If you hadn’t)  
And if at that moment you weren’t haunted by the thought I’d disappear  
And if at that moment I showed you that you were always the only one  
And if at that moment you believed me, and I believed you, and we believed in each other  

[Chorus]  
Will we still be together? (Together)  
Will we still be together? (Together)  
Smiling every time we hear each other’s names (Hear each other’s names)  
Are we still in love, in love like the first day we came together?  
The day you stayed up all night to pray  
The day you promised yourself no matter what, you would still love me, yeah  
Do we still love?  

[Bridge]  
If at that moment we hadn’t let go, yeah, yeah  
If at that moment we hadn’t run away, huh-oh  
And if at that moment we hadn’t been like this, yeah  
Maybe, maybe…  

[Verse 2]  
But maybe everything had to happen this way for me to see I must love myself  
It’s time for me to realize I’ve always been deceiving my heart  
Because if you wanted, you would have found a way, but you don’t care, yeah  
I hate the way I always make excuses for every time you were thoughtless  
I hate the way I say I’m okay when I’m feeling hurt  
Hate the cruel public opinion, hate thinking of you too much  
Hate having to stay silent, pretending I’m not burdened  

But I’ve also made mistakes many times, forgive me  
Promising you things that are now just illusions, forgive me  
Walking away because I need to heal myself, forgive me  
Allowing myself to accept new love, forgive me  
Learning to take responsibility for my feelings, forgive me  
Cherishing what I have, yeah, forgive me, yeah  
I hope you do too  

[Chorus]  
So one day we will come back together  
One day we will come back together  
Smiling when we catch each other’s gaze (Catch each other’s gaze)  
Even if we won’t be in love, in love like the first day we came together? Oh  
But we can start over from the beginning  
No more fears or doubts left  

[Outro]  
What do you think? (What do you think?)  
What do you think? (What do you think?)  
What do you think? (What do you think?)  
What do you think? (What do you think?)  